Doom II FAQ/Walkthrough
For the PC (DOS/Windows)
Written by peach freak or peachfreak90@hotmail.com
Copyright 2003-2015 Tim Brastow. All Rights Reserved.
Version 4.95

Welcome! This is a FAQ/Walkthrough for Doom II: Hell on Earth, the Ultimate
Doom's awesome sequel. And if you have any questions, or if I have made a
mistake in my Walkthrough, email me at peachfreak90@hotmail.com. Once questions
are asked, I will make an Asked Questions section.

If you want to speak with me directly, then my AIM screen name is
sonicdoommario. If you have any questions and stuff, IM me at that screen name.

Also, this FAQ is protected by copyright. You cannot sell this, put this FAQ on
your website without my permission, or any other violation of copyright law.
You can, however, save this file in something like My Documents. You can also
print this out too.

Table of Contents
1. Asked Questions
2. Controls
3. Weapons
4. Enemies
5. Items
6. Things to Look Out For
7. Walkthrough
8. Secrets
9. Bugs and Errors
10. How to use a BFG9000
11. Ghost Monsters
12. Cheat Codes
13. Update History
14. Credits

===================
1. Asked Questions
===================

If any (good) questions are brought up to me about this game (either by instant
messaging or emailing me), I will add them here if they help.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Question: So, I'm a little bit confused about this, because I've never ever
seen a German Version of Doom 2, where did you get that information? In the
index of the BPJM (they do all the forbidding stuff, from Games to Music here
in Germany) only the US (or UK) Version is listed.

Answer: There are two separate WADs for DOOM II. The "USA" one and the "German"
one. If you purchased Doom II from Germany, it's likely you won't be able to
play the secret levels Wolfenstein and Grosse, because they have Nazi symbols
and so-fourth, and anything that has symbols of nazis or anything like that is
forbidden by law in Germany. I once had the German version of Doom II, and the
game would crash whenever I tried to warp to maps 31 or 32, which are the
secret levels in Doom II based on Wolfenstein 3D.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Question: I installed the Doom Collector's Edition, and it's great. I am
getting sound effects, but no music at all. How do I fix this? I am running on
Windows XP Professional.

Answer: If you get sound effects but no music, it is most likely your audio
settings used to play back MIDI files. Some settings will not play back MIDI
format files. To change this, do this:

1. Click Start and then open up the control panel.
2. On the control panel, open up the "Sounds and Multimedia" program.
3. On the window that is opened, there are three tabs at the top. Click the
audio tab.
4. There will be "Sound Playback", "Sound Recording" and "MIDI Playback". Set
"MIDI playback" to "Microsoft GS Wavetable SW Synth". Now, this is your
computer's default device for playing back sound files.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Question: Man, this game is so hard to find. Where can I buy this game?

Answer: You can find this game nowadays on Steam, a popular program used to buy
games digitally. On Steam, Doom II can normally be found at a price of $4.99
(unless there is an ongoing sale). You can also buy this in a bundle on Steam,
where you can get Ultimate Doom, Doom II, Final Doom, and Master Levels for
Doom II at $14.99.

If you want a physical copy of this game, you can always try sites like eBay or
Amazon, where the price of this game may vary. In addition, you can also try
your local yard sales or flea markets, and hope that you get lucky. Finally,
you can find this game bundled in other collections, like Doom: Collector's
Edition (which includes Ultimate Doom, Doom II, and Final Doom) or The Depths
of Doom Trilogy (which includes Ultimate Doom, Doom II, and the Master Levels
for Doom II).

Of course, this thing changes from time to time, so I'll try to keep this
updated.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Question: How can I play this game on Windows XP or later?

Answer: Doom was designed for DOS (Disk Operating System), which was an
operating system that existed before Windows. DOS was integrated into earlier
versions of Windows, such as Windows 95 and 98, which allowed you to play Doom
on older Windows operating systems. However, DOS was removed from Windows
starting with Windows 2000, which caused compatibility problems for very old
games like Doom.

A few years after Doom was released in 1993, the main programmer of Doom (John
Carmack), released the source code for this game, making Doom open-source. This
allowed programmers to design source ports for Doom, thus allowing you to play
Doom on modern Windows operating systems. These source ports include many
features not originally found in Doom, such as the ability to jump.

If you want the true and original experience to Doom II, using doom2.exe, I
would recommend downloading DOSBox, found at www.dosbox.com. DOSBox very
effectively emulates DOS and you can use it to play games that were designed
for DOS, such as Doom and Wolfenstein 3D.

One source port you can use to obtain the original experience to Doom II is
Chocolate Doom, which can be obtained from chocolate-doom.org. The name of the
source port, Chocolate Doom, is obviously a joke on the term "Vanilla Doom"
(which is used to describe the Doom experience on DOS and doom.exe). Chocolate
Doom provides you a very identical behavior to Vanilla Doom, and it works on
all modern Windows operating systems.

Two other source ports I recommend include ZDoom and the Doomsday Engine. ZDoom
can be found at zdoom.org, and includes countless new features not found in
Vanilla Doom. Doomsday Engine can be found at dengine.net, and is designed to
render Doom in OpenGL, which can make Doom look much nicer in comparison to
today's games.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Question: Is there a way to play Doom online?

Answer: Yes, there is as a matter of fact. You can play Doom online using
ZDaemon, which can be downloaded at www.zdaemon.org. If you use ZDaemon, then
you can create your own user name, make servers and play online with up to 16
people. You can play Cooperative, where you help out other people kill the
demons and get through the levels. There is also Deathmatch where you can
battle and kill other marines. Finally, you have Capture the Flag where you
must capture the enemy's flag and return it to your base with Red Team vs. Blue
Team (there are some WADs that have 4 teams instead of 2, with red, blue, green
and white teams).

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Doom 95 Questions
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Question: When I play Doom on Doom95, the screen looks all messed up. What
causes this?

On Doom95, this can be caused by the game's default resolution, which is
320x200. Most monitors today cannot support this resolution, so the game can be
pushed off the monitor screen, be in a widescreen view, and other weird
effects. My suggestion would be to bump up the resolution to 640x480, which is
the highest Doom95 can go, but only do this if your computer is fast enough for
this resolution. Otherwise, use 320x240. Nearly every monitor supports this
resolution without a problem and the game should run smoother.

Another suggestion is to ditch Doom95 and use a source port, like ZDoom or
Doomsday. These source ports are compatible with modern day resolutions like
1024x768 and look really nice. I run Doom using 1280x1024 because it looks all
weird on any lower resolution, nothing is blurry, and it doesn't hurt your
eyes.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Question: How come my mouse will not work under Doom95?

Answer: In Doom95, there can be many reasons for your mouse not working. First,
you must download the Doom95 mouse driver located at
http://www.classicdoom.com/dmouse.zip

Then you must put it into the folder you have Doom95 in. The next requirement
for having the mouse work is that this only works for Windows 95 and 98. It
will not work with Windows 2000 or Windows XP. Rule number 3 is that you must
have your mouse plugged into a PS/2 port, NOT A USB PORT. Otherwise this won't
work.

If you have downloaded that and you meet all of the requirements, open up
Doom95, click the configuration button. Now on this window, click on the mouse
tab. If "Enable Mouse Support" is not checked, check it now. Now hit "Apply
Now" on the top of the screen, run Doom95, and hopefully your mouse will work
now. Doing this made my mouse work when I had Windows 98, but now I am upgraded
to Windows 7 Professional.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Question: I cannot create demos in Doom95. When it loads, it closes saying the
demo was recorded. How can I fix this?

Answer: Whenever you get Doom95, you will need a file called "doomlnch.dll" to
run Doom95. This is the reason why you can't create demos under Doom95. Here is
a link to the updated version of doomlnch.dll:

http://www.classicdoom.com/dm95fix.zip

Unzip doomlnch.dll and put it in your Doom95 folder, replacing your older file.
If you right click the file and go to properties, the date modified should be
"Wednesday, April 22, 1998". If so, then you got the updated version. If not,
download the link above.

Now you should be able to create demos without a problem. To do this, open
Doom95, click the Advanced Tab, click the Demo Tab, and then you'll see "Record
Demo". Check this box, make a name for the demo, put maximum file size at
999KB, and hit ok. Now run Doom95 and you should be good to go creating demos.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

============
2. Controls
============

-------------------
Keyboard Controls
-------------------

Control: Fire, hold Control down to fire rapidly
Arrow Keys: Move
Shift (held) while moving: Run
Alt (held) while moving: Strafe
*Spacebar: Activate Switches, Open Doors, activate lifts, etc...
Enter: Shows the last message that appeared in the top left corner in the
Screen, or to select something in the menu
Tab: View Automap
Escape: View menu (this can be used anytime in the game, including at the title
screen, and ending texture screen)

*When I say "Check the walls", it means to press the spacebar in front of the
wall. Also, when I say "Go through the Blue Door", that means open it, and
enter the room.

----------------
Mouse Controls
----------------

Even though the mouse is just as useful as the keyboard is, the mouse can turn
your player in a direction more quickly than the keyboard does (but I prefer
the keyboard). Anyway, here are the controls for the mouse (if you have mouse
support for Doom). Also, there is no mouse button for opening doors, hitting
switches, etc. You still need to use the keyboard.

Move Mouse Right: Turns player right
Move Mouse Left: Turns player left
Move Mouse Up: Moves player forward
Move Mouse Back: Moves player backward
Left Mouse Button: Fire weapon
Right Mouse Bottom (While held, moving left/right): Strafe left/right
Double-click Right More button: Open door, activate switch, etc

------------------
Automap Controls
------------------

Tab: Switch back to first person mode
Arrow Keys: Move
Shift (Held) while moving: Run
Alt (Held) while moving: Strafe
-: Zoom out
+: Zoom In
0: Full view of map
M: Mark a spot on the nap
C: Clear all marks
F: Follow Mode On/Off

Mark spots: when in the Automap and pressing M, a number will be placed on the
map where you pressed M. This supports 10 numbers, 0-9. You can use these to
note important parts in the level.

Clear all marks: When pressing C, any marked numbers on the map are removed.

Follow mode: When "follow mode" is disabled, you will be able to pan around the
Automap to see other locations by using the arrow keys, without moving the
player. When follow mode is on, the map will follow wherever the player moves.

-------------------------------------------------
"F" Functions (some only work during gameplay):
-------------------------------------------------

F1: Read This!
F2: Save Game
F3: Load Game
F4: Adjust Volume
F5: Adjust graphics quality
F6: Quicksave
F7: End Game
F8: Toggle on/off Messages
F9: Quickload
F10: Quit Game
F11: Adjust brightness

Read This! (F1): Provides you all of the information about how to play this
game, which includes all of the controls listed here.

Save Game (F2): You can use this to save your game at any time during the game.
So, if you're not good at this game, I'd save often, especially if you don't
know what's ahead. You have six save slots that you can use.

Load Game (F3): You can use this to load any previously saved game, at any
time.

Adjust volume (F4): This will allow you to adjust the volume of the sound
effects and volume, where you can use sliding bars to reduce or increase the
volume.

Adjust graphics quality (F5): On Chocolate and Vanilla Doom, this is used to
adjust the graphics between high quality and low quality (you can still notice
the difference today). This was designed for older computers (and by that I
mean much, much older computers) that may have lagged when playing this game on
high quality graphics.

Quick Save (F6): In order to use this, select which slot you want to save your
game to. Afterwards, every time you press F6, you will be simply prompted to
overwrite your existing file (without needing to select it from the saved games
menu) and all you need to do to save is to press the Y key.

End Game (F7): When pressing F7, you will be prompted on whether or not you
want to end the game. If you press Y, you will be brought back to Doom II's
title screen.

Toggle on/off Messages (F8): Pressing F8 will stop messages from being printed
on the top left corner of the screen (messages showing that you've acquired
items, weapons, etc). Pressing F8 again will turn these messages back on.

Quick Load (F9): Pressing F9 will prompt you to load your quick-saved game
(that you use with F6). All you need to do is press Y to load this game.

Quit Game (F10): When pressing F10, the game will prompt you to quit, where you
can press Y to exit Doom II.

Adjust Brightness (F11): You can use F11 to adjust the brightness level of
Doom. There are 5 brightness levels (0 through 4, with 0 being the darkest and
4 being the brightest).

------------------
Weapon Controls
------------------

This shows which key you need to press to equip a weapon.

1. Fist/Chainsaw *
2. Pistol
3. Shotgun/Super Shotgun (press 3 to alternate between them once you have both)
4. Chaingun
5. Rocket Launcher
6. Plasma Gun
7. BFG
8. Chainsaw

*Keep in mind that if you acquire a Chainsaw, you will be unable to switch to
your Fist. However, if you pick up a Berserk, which is an item that powers up
your Fist, and if you have a Chainsaw, you can press 1 to alternate between
your Fist and Chainsaw.

------------------------------
Doom95-only controls/options
------------------------------

If you buy the Doom Collector's Edition these days, it may come with Doom95, a
program for running Doom. Doom95 is like the original EXE with a bit more
features:

With Doom95 you can change the screen size while playing Doom. The possible
choices are:

320 x 200
320 x 240
640 x 400
640 x 480

There are two ways of changing the screen size: During the game, Hold Alt and
press + or -, and this will change the screen size higher or lower (+ is
higher, and - is lower). Another way is to open Doom95 and click Advanced. Then
go to the Screen Resolution tab, select which one you want, and hit OK.

Creating demos with Doom95: If you've ever tried to create a demo with Doom95
before, you'll notice that when you load the game up Doom95 immediately
terminates, as Doom95 has a bug that prevents it from creating demos. To fix
the bug, download this doomlnch.dll here: www.classicdoom.com/dm95fix.zip then
copy and paste it into your Doom95 folder and replace the current doomlnch.dll
with this one. Now you should be able to create demos with Doom95 without a
problem (this is legal by the way, it's a little "patch" to fix up demo
creating).

Playing demos: To play demos with Doom95, open up Doom95 and then click
Advanced. Then click the demo tab and check "play demo". Now select the one you
want to play, then click OK, then run the game (note that you need the correct
game running and this may not run demos created with other source ports). Also,
there is no bug that prevents you from playing demos.

To play with no monsters: Open Doom95, check the "No Monsters" box and run the
game.
To play with fast monsters: Open Doom95, check the "Fast Monsters" box and run
the game. Monsters will be 3 times as fast.
To play with respawning monsters: Open Doom95, check the "Monsters Respawn" box
and run the game.

Also, on the main window of Doom95, you can select what Doom game you want to
play and if you want to use a PWAD (you can only use one though). You can also
select the skill level you want to play on. To play a saved game, click on
Advanced and check what saved game you want to load (note that you must be
running the correct Doom game for it to load).

The configuration button: Next to the Advanced button is a Configuration
button. If you click on it you can configure all your settings for the
keyboard, mouse, audio, chat strings, and joystick. Once you change anything
you want, click Apply Now (or create a new configuration, save it, switch to
it, and then click Apply Now). There is a default configuration which can't be
deleted.

===========
3. Weapons
===========

In this section, the number next to the weapon name is the number you press to
switch to that weapon once you have it.

1. Fist: This being your own Fist, you can use this weapon at any time. It is a
very weak method of attacking and you can only use it in close combat. This
should only be used in moments of desperation. However, the power of this
weapon can be upgraded with a Berserk, which makes your Fist 10 times stronger.
With a powered-up Fist, you can take out very weak enemies in one hit, and
stronger enemies in only a matter of hits. Just be very careful. The best way
to attack is to punch, retreat, and punch again when it is safe. To use your
Fist, press 1. Now, when you pick up a Chainsaw, you will no longer be able to
access your Fist. However, when you have a Berserk in effect, you can press 1
to alternate between the Chainsaw and the Fist.

8. Chainsaw: The Chainsaw can be seen as one of Doom's more entertaining
weapons. Picking up the Chainsaw will replace your Fist (so pressing 1 will
take you to your Chainsaw). Being a Chainsaw, you can only use this weapon at
close combat, so you need to be very careful. This weapon is most useful for
taking out Demons, Spectres, and Cacodemons, as this can stun these enemies in
their tracks and they won't have a chance to fight back at you. There is no
limit to how much you can use this weapon, as it appears to have unlimited
fuel. The Chainsaw can be first found right at the beginning of the game, to
the left of the starting area in Level 1: Entryway.

2. Pistol: You will have this weapon with you at all times. It's not that great
of a weapon, and should only be used for extremely weak enemies, like
Zombiemen, Shotgun Guys, and Imps. The Pistol can hold up to 200 bullets, and
400 with a Backpack. Obviously, once you pick up any other weapon, you should
never really use this weapon again. If you need to conserve ammo for other
weapons, then you can try using the Pistol. You can also use it to shoot gun-
triggered switches (to save ammo for your other weapons). Also, when using the
Pistol, keep tapping on the fire button, as opposed to holding it down. This
keeps the bullets centered (and more accurate) instead of being more scattered.

3. Shotgun: The Shotgun is a solid weapon, whose usefulness has been outlived
by its successor, the Super Shotgun. You will generally use this weapon until
you pick up the Super Shotgun. It is great for taking out individual weak
enemies, like Zombiemen, Shotgun Guys, Imps, and Heavy Weapon Dudes. One
advantage this weapon has over the Super Shotgun is that it is better at long-
distance use. The Shotgun is also great for sniping out enemies from a distance
or on higher up platforms. This weapon uses Shells, and each shell fires out 7
pellets. It can hold up to a maximum of 50 Shells and 100 with a Backpack. The
Shotgun can be first picked up in Level 1: Entryway.

3. Super Shotgun: The Super Shotgun is a great weapon and will most likely be
your primary gun. It fires out 2 shells and is much more powerful than the
Shotgun. One of the reasons is that the Super Shotgun fires out 20 pellets per
shot, as opposed to 7 with the Shotgun. The only real drawbacks with this
weapon are the longer reload times in between shots and the weapon is
practically useless in long range combat. This weapon is great against any
enemy, with the exception of the Cyberdemon and the Spider Mastermind. Even the
tougher enemies will go down in a matter of hits with this weapon. Like the
Shotgun, it holds up to 50 Shells, 100 with a Backpack. This weapon can be
first found in Level 2: Underhalls.

4. Chaingun: With other great weapons to use, generally the Chaingun will take
a backseat to your other weapons. The Chaingun is still useful for taking out
large groups of weak enemies, like Zombiemen, Shotgun Guys, and Imps. It is
also great for taking out Demons, Spectres, and Cacodemons, as it can stun
these enemies in their tracks most of the time. It is not useful for taking out
groups of stronger enemies, as you will most likely not have enough ammo to
kill everyone and because stronger enemies can take many hits from bullets. In
addition, the Chaingun is great for sniping out enemies from long distance and
up in towers. It uses bullets, the same ammo that the Pistol uses. The best way
to use the Chaingun is to keep tapping the fire button, instead of holding it
down. This will keep the Chaingun bullets centered and prevent them from
scattering around. You can first find the Chaingun in Level 3: The Gantlet.

5. Rocket Launcher: One of the two high-powered weapons in this game. The
rockets can cause major damage, and take out groups of enemies in a hurry. One
rocket can even destroy a large group of weak enemies. You can hold up to 50
rockets for this weapon, and 100 with a Backpack. Obviously, you will want to
keep your distance when using this damage, as you can get hurt from the splash
damage in close combat. As there is no reloading or recoiling with this weapon
in between rockets, it can take out just about any enemy very quickly. You can
first find this weapon in Level 1: Entryway.

6. Plasma Gun: The Plasma Gun can be one of the more fun weapons to play around
with. You may not use this weapon as much, especially if you are saving the
plasma cells for the BFG. It fires out plasma projectiles at a fast rate, and
can kill almost any enemy (save the Spider Mastermind or Cyberdemon) in a
matter of seconds. It is a great weapon for taking out individual enemies and
for groups of monsters. With its fast firepower, it can also stun many enemies
in their tracks. The Plasma Gun can hold up to 300 cells and 600 with a
Backpack. Personally, the Plasma Gun is my "panic mode" weapon, which I use
when I am low on health and need to kill surrounding enemies quickly. This
weapon is first found in Level 5: The Waste Tunnels.

7. BFG 9000: The BFG is obviously Doom's most infamous weapon. It is the most
powerful weapon in the game. It uses energy cells, the same ammo that the
Plasma Gun uses. Each shot uses up 40 cells, so you cannot use this weapon if
you have less than that. One thing you need to be aware of is that there is a
slight delay when firing the BFG, as it takes a second to charge. You can use
this to your advantage, however. For example, you can fire the BFG and open a
door while the BFG is charging up, that way you can catch your enemies by
surprise. It is a great weapon for taking out groups of enemies, weak or
strong. It can take out a Cyberdemon or a Spider Mastermind with 3 or 4 hits.
When the big green energy ball hits something, it can cause splash damage to
other enemies in sight. The BFG can be first found in Level 8: Tricks and
Traps.

===========
4. Enemies
===========

Note that the enemy appearances I'm referring to is their first appearance on
the skill level, "Ultra Violence"

Zombieman: One of your most basic, standard, weakest enemies in the game. They
are small soldiers who used to be former marines of your own kind. They fire
small pistol bullets at you for attacking. You can use pretty much any weapon
to get rid of them. This enemy is first found in Level 1: Entryway.

Shotgun Guy: Just like the Zombiemen, except these are slightly stronger and
better with their weapons. They carry around Shotguns and fire at you to
attack. These Shotguns can do a lot of damage at you, especially on high skill
levels. To get rid of Shotgun Guys, use any weapon to get rid of them, as they
are still pretty weak. This enemy is first found in Level 2: Underhalls.

Heavy Weapon Dude: Even worse than a Zombieman and Shotgun Guy combined. These
people carry around Chainguns and they fire it at you when they attack. If you
just stand in front of them and do nothing, their Chaingun will wear you down
very fast. Any weapon but the Pistol can knock them out in one hit, so don't
hesitate to use one of those weapons. These are very common in the game,
especially on harder skill levels. This is first found in Level 3: The Gantlet.

Imp: About the size of a Shotgun Guy. Imps are small, brown monsters who walk
around on two feet. To attack you, they shoot out a fireball at far distances.
But if you are up close, they will scratch you. Their attacks are pretty weak,
so don't worry. Use any weapon but the Pistol or Fist (unless you have a
Berserk), and they should be taken down in one hit. Found in plenty of the
levels during the game. This is first found in Level 1: Entryway.

Demon: One of the first actual "Demons" you will see in the game. They are pink
"bulls" who run around on two legs. On harder skill levels, their bite, which
is their only way of attacking, can hurt really badly. To kill these enemies,
stay at a far distance and use pretty much any weapon. If you are up close, a
Chaingun or a Chainsaw can take them down easily, and they shouldn't be able to
attack either. This is first found in Level 2: Underhalls.

Spectre: Almost the same exact thing as a Demon. Instead, Spectres are nearly
invisible, as they are gray and blurry, but you can still see them easily, but
watch out in dark areas. They bite at you for attacking, and it can hurt badly
on harder skill levels. To get rid of them easily, use any weapon and if you
are up close, use a Chaingun or a Chainsaw to take them down in no time, and
they shouldn't be able to attack either. This is first found in Level 2:
Underhalls.

Lost Soul: Probably the most annoying enemy at the game. You'll know them when
you see them. Fine, I'll tell you. They are small enemies that are on fire and
they also fly around in the air. Most of the time they appear in groups, and
they will come out of the mouth of a Pain Elemental. They attack you by backing
up and then charging right at you, which can be annoying, especially when you
are up close to them. To get rid of them, use anything but a Pistol, Fist, or
Chainsaw and they will go down quickly. This is first found in Level 5: The
Waste Tunnels.

Cacodemon: A really popular enemy, it seems. Just like the Lost Souls, these
enemies fly around in the air. They are big, red, have one eye, and a big
mouth. They have two methods of attacking you. They can open their mouth up and
shoot a fireball at you, and theirs is pretty strong. Their other attack is
when you are up close, they can bit at you, which can hurt a LOT. The best
weapons to use against them are the Chaingun and Chainsaw, and if you use
those, they won't have a chance to attack you. This is first found in Level 5:
The Waste Tunnels.

Hell Knight: A big step up from all of the other enemies. Like pretty much most
other enemy, they walk on two legs, and have two methods of attacking you. They
are tall and have a light color on their body as well. They can shoot a green
fireball at you to attack, or if you're up close, they will scratch you. Either
attack can hurt a LOT on hard skill levels. To get rid of them, 3 rockets from
a Rocket Launcher or 3 Shells from a Super Shotgun can get rid of them easily.
But a Plasma Gun and BFG are effective as well. This is first found in Level 5:
The Waste Tunnels.

Baron of Hell: Just when you thought the Hell Knights were bad enough. To find
the difference between the Hell Knight and a Baron of Hell, Barons of Hell have
a slightly darker body (they have dark pink, while Hell Knights have a bright
color). Just like the Hell Knight, their two methods of attacking are using a
fireball and scratching you up close, but these hurt a LOT more than the Hell
Knights. They are also tougher, so they won't go down easy. Use a Rocket
Launcher, Plasma Gun, or BFG to take them down, otherwise be prepared for a
long fight. This is first found in Level 8: Tricks and Traps.

Arachnotron: Well, there's always something new to look forward to. Has your
fear for spiders increased now? These are spiders that walk around and when
they see you, they will fire green cells at you, identical to the ones you fire
from your Plasma Gun. They shouldn't be a problem if you are good at dodging.
Almost any weapon can get rid of these enemies, except from the Pistol, Fist,
or Chainsaw. 3 shots from a Rocket Launcher or Super Shotgun will get rid of
them in a fluke. This is first found in Level 7: Dead Simple.

Pain Elemental: You may think these are the most annoying enemies in the game,
but the Lost Souls can knock out any enemy in that game. They are almost like
the Cacodemon. They are big, they fly, and have one eye. They are also brown
and they don't attack you. What they do is that they shoot Lost Souls out of
their mouths and the Lost Souls go and directly attack you. Once they get
killed, 3 Lost Souls will appear after they explode, unless it explodes at a
nearby wall (where a Lost Soul may get stuck in the wall). To kill them easily,
1 BFG shot will do the trick. Otherwise, 3 rockets or 3 Super Shotgun Shells
will finish them off easily. This is first found in Level 8: Tricks and Traps.

Revenants: For being annoying, Revenants are right behind the Lost Souls in
that category. They are skeleton like enemies who have two methods of attacking
you. One of their methods of attacking is that they will shoot a missile at
you. There is a chance that it can be a homing missile. To tell if it is, there
will be smoke in the back of the missile. Run around and try to have it hit
something. Its other method of attacking is that it will punch you if you are
up close. Both attacks are very annoying and can do a lot of damage. 2 Super
Shotgun or Rocket Launcher blasts will do the trick. This is first found in
Level 6: The Crusher.

Mancubus: Another fun enemy, which is one of my favorites. The bad news is that
the fireballs it pumps out can hurt really badly on higher skill levels. The
good news is that a Mancubus is fat, meaning it's a nice, big, wide target. It
has two missile launchers on its arms and both of them shoot out 3 missiles at
a time. They can be dodged pretty easily, but sometimes it can be tricky. Three
shells from a Super Shotgun or 3 rockets from a Rocket Launcher will do the
trick as usual. This is first found in Level 7: Dead Simple.

Arch-vile: A little devil that can ruin your little killing spree in Doom.
These are huge skeleton monsters and they are very fast as well. When they see
you, they will attack but putting a fire on you and then attack. It does a LOT
of damage, and can put your health below 20%. To avoid his attack, GET OUT OF
HIS SIGHT BEFORE HE ATTACKS, and you'll be safe so he doesn't hit you. But
that's not it. When there is a dead monster around, he can go to it and revive
it, bringing it back from the dead. The only exceptions are Arch-viles, Pain
Elementals, Lost Souls, Cyberdemons, or Spider Masterminds. To get rid of them,
1 BFG blast should do it, otherwise it can be strong enough to stand a BFG.
This is first found in Level 11: Circle of Death (also called 'O' of
Destruction!).

Cyberdemon: My favorite enemy in the whole world of Doom. Cyberdemons are huge
goat-like monsters, but they stand on two legs and walk around. One of their
legs is metal, and on one of their arms is a Rocket Launcher, which has about
the same amount of power as yours. The rockets can be dodged without a problem,
and you can attack him by using your own rockets or a BFG. It should take
anywhere from 2-4 shots to kill him. Also, his metal leg makes a sound when he
walks, and it gets louder when he gets closer. This always scared the crap out
of me. This is first found in Level 8: Tricks and Traps.

Spider Mastermind: Just like an Arachnotron, except bigger. A lot bigger. These
are giant spiders with a huge brain that like to walk around. Instead of firing
plasma cells at you, they have a Super Chaingun which is a lot more powerful.
Even though it has that, it is still pretty week. It only takes about 2 or 3
BFG blasts to get rid of it, and not a lot of Rockets either. This is first
found in Level 6: The Crusher on Ultra Violence. If not, you won't see this
until Level 20: Gotcha!

SS Officer: This is only found in the U.S. version of Doom II. This is because
anything that has to do with Nazis is forbidden by law in Germany, so they had
to cut this in the German version of Doom II. They are about the size of a
Shotgun Guy with the blue uniform on from Wolfenstein 3D. To attack you, they
fire a pistol at you which sounds like a Shotgun. They drop a clip when they
attack you, and it does not hurt you a lot. Use any weapon to take down these
weak soldiers. Only found in Level 31: Wolfenstein and Level 32: Grosse.

Commander Keen: Also found in the U.S. version of Doom II, as it is found in a
level with SS Officers in it. Also from the Commander Keen series. They are
little guys hanging from the ceiling at the end of Level 32: Grosse. Just one
shot from the Super Shotgun can take out all 4 of them. Once all of them are
dead, you can exit the level. They do not attack you as well.

=========
5. Items
=========

-------------
Health/Armor
-------------

Health Bonus: This adds 1% extra Health to your current health. With this, you
can go past 100% health.

Armor Bonus: This adds 1% extra Armor to your current armor. With this, you can
go past 100% armor.

Stimpack: This adds 10% health to your current health. You cannot go past 100%
health using these.

Medikits: Better than the Stimpacks. These add 25% health to your current
health. You cannot go past 100% health using these.

Green Armor: When you pick this up, this sets your armor to 100%. This will not
work if your armor is greater than 100%. Picking up a Green Armor reduces the
damage by 1/3, meaning you take 2/3 of the damage.

MegaArmor: This is the blue armor. When you pick it up, it sets your armor to
200%. Picking up a MegaArmor reduces the damage by 1/2.

Soulsphere: This increases your health by 100%. The maximum health you can have
is 200%, so this is a really useful item. Only use it when you are low on
health, but grab it when you really need it.

MegaSphere: The best health item you can get. Once you pick it up, it sets both
your health and armor to 200%! This is very useful, but if you are high on
health, leave it where it is and come back to get it when you are about to exit
the level.

****************
HOW ARMOR WORKS
****************

Ok, it seems that Armor is next to useless to the naked eye, but if you pay
close attention to your health, you'll notice that the armor can help a lot and
stop you from getting beat down like a rag doll. Let's take a look at a few
examples of how armor can protect you:

Green Armor: Green Armors reduce the damage by 1/3, meaning you take 2/3 of the
damage. Here is an example of how Green Armor works.

HEALTH: 100%
ARMOR: 100%
DAMAGE: 30%
WITH NO ARMOR: 100% - 30% = 70% health remaining.
WITH GREEN ARMOR IN EFFECT:
1/3 of 30 = 10
30 - 10 = 20
Health: 100% - 20% = 80% health remaining.
Armor: 100% - 10% = 90% armor remaining.

MegaArmor: MegaArmors reduce the damage by 1/2.

HEALTH: 100%
ARMOR: 200%
DAMAGE: 40%
WITH NO ARMOR: 100% - 40% = 60% health remaining.
WITH MEGAARMOR IN EFFECT:
1/2 of 40 = 20
40 - 20 = 20
Health: 100% - 20% = 80% health remaining.
Armor: 200% - 20% = 180% armor remaining.

Armor Bonuses: Armor Bonuses can be a little more complicated. Picking up an
Armor Bonus adds 1% to your armor up to 200%. However, they do NOT change the
type of armor in effect (for example if you have 75% armor remaining from a
MegaArmor and pick up 5 armor bonuses, your armor will increase to 80% while
Still having the protection of a MegaArmor and reducing the damage taken by
1/2). Also, if you do not have any armor and pick up an Armor Bonus, it will
reduce the damage by 1/3, like a Green Armor.

One last scenario with Armor is that sometimes you won't have enough armor to
reduce the damage by the full 1/3 or 1/2 (depending on the type of armor in
effect). When this happens, the game will subtract your armor down to 0, and
the difference of the damage will be subtracted from your health.

HEALTH: 100%
ARMOR: 3%
DAMAGE: 20%
WITH NO ARMOR: 100% - 20% = 80% health remaining.
WITH 3% ARMOR: 20 - 3 = 17
Health: 100% - 17% = 83% health remaining.
Armor: 3% - 3% = 0% armor remaining.

Now, regardless of your armor protection, 3 (the amount of armor you had) is
nowhere close to being 1/3 or 1/2 of 20, so your armor is reduced down from 3
to 0 while the difference (17) is subtracted from your health.

-----
Ammo
-----

This is the ammo you can get throughout the game. It shows how much it gives on
easy/hard skill levels, what weapon it is used for, etc.

Use this table to find out the name of ammo used for each weapon. The "small
ammo" is very little ammo that doesn't give you a lot. "Large Ammo" is ammo
that comes in bigger amounts and is a lot more useful.

|-------|------------|-----------------------|
|Weapon | Small Ammo | Large Ammo            |
|-------|------------|-----------------------|
| P/CG  | Clip       |Box of Bullets         |
|-------|------------|-----------------------|
|SG/SSG |4/8 Shells  |Box of Shotgun Shells  |
|-------|------------|-----------------------|
| RL    |Rocket      |Box of Rockets         |
|-------|------------|-----------------------|
|PG/BFG |Energy Cell |Energy Cell Pack       |
|-------|------------|-----------------------|

P: Pistol
SG: Shotgun
SSG: Super Shotgun
CG: Chaingun
RL: Rocket Launcher
PG: Plasma Gun
BFG: BFG9000

Here is the amount of ammo each type gives out.

*********************
Pistol/Chaingun Ammo
*********************

Clip: Gives out 20 bullets on skill 1, 10 on harder skill levels. If you pick
it up from a Zombieman, it will give you 10 on skill 1, 5 on harder skill
levels.

Box of Bullets: Gives you 100 bullets on skill 1, 50 on harder skill levels.

***************************
Shotgun/Super Shotgun Ammo
***************************

Shotgun Shells: Gives you 8 shells on skill 1, 4 shells on harder skill levels.

Box of Shells: Gives you 40 shells on skill 1, 20 on harder skill levels.

*********************
Rocket Launcher Ammo
*********************

Rocket: Gives you 2 rockets on skill 1, 1 on harder skill levels.

Box of Rockets: Gives you 10 rockets on skill 1, 5 on harder skill levels.

********************
Plasma Gun/BFG Ammo
********************

Energy Cell: Gives you 40 cells on skill 1, 20 on harder skill levels.

Energy Cell Pack: Gives you 200 cells on skill 1, 100 on harder skills.

----------
Power-Ups
----------

These are items that will be a big help to you throughout the game. They help
you or protect you of some sort.

Backpack: This is probably my favorite item in the whole game. When you pick it
up, it doubles the amount of ammo you can carry! For example, the maximum
amount of bullets you can carry is 200. With a backpack you can carry 400. Just
take your maximum ammo and multiply it by 2.

Berserk: Man, this is a really fun item right here. When you pick it up, it
will set your health to 100% if it is below 100%. The second effect is that
your screen will go red and it will power up your Fist! The red screen lasts
for a few seconds, and this will remain in effect for the rest of the level.
During this time, your Fist will become very powerful, and it will be able to
knock out anything weaker than a Demon in one hit. It can knock out stronger
enemies in just a few punches! Very useful to save ammo as well.

Computer Area Map: Another useful item if you may happen to get lost. Once you
pick this up, it will fill your Automap 100% so that you can see everything on
the Automap! Areas that are in gray are areas that you have not visited yet.
However, this will not add object indicators to the Automap (where you can see
items and enemies moving around).

Invisibility Sphere: This red orb is something that makes you invisible. While
you are invisible, enemy attacks will be less accurate, and when they try to
attack you, it may miss. But you won't be completely invisible, as enemies just
have more difficulty spotting you. The other part is that this is on a time
limit, and you will be invisible for a minute.

Invincibility Sphere: Just the exact thing you'll need when you are in a
hellhole. While you are invincible, your screen will go white. This effect
lasts for 30 seconds. Also when you are invincible, you cannot be damaged in
any way. This includes enemy attacks, crushing ceilings, and even slime pits.
It just lasts for 30 seconds, and the white screen can be annoying.

Radiation Suit: Something you will really need in levels with a lot of slime
pits. When you pick one of these up, your screen will go green for a minute.
During this time, you will not be hurt when you are walking around in slime, as
this gives you protection from lava and slime. This effect lasts for a minute
and you can still get hurt by enemies, even if you do have this on.

Light Amplification Visors: A really, really, neat power-up. When picked up,
the entire level will have maximum brightness for 2 minutes. This item is
really useful for navigating very dark rooms and mazes. After two minutes, the
rooms in the level will return to their normal brightness levels.

----------
Key Items
----------

Keycard/Skull Keys: Found in levels, these keys come in 3 colors: red,
yellow, and blue. Not all keys are in all levels, so keep that in mind. These
keys open a locked door, activate certain switches, etc.....

Also, many of the doors are not 100% blue, red, or yellow. If the door has red,
yellow, or blue lights to the sides of it, that's also a red, yellow, or blue
door. There may be a level with a Yellow and Red Key, but you may not need the
Yellow Key to complete that level (that sentence right there is made up, just
giving you a little example of that some keys in a level might not be needed to
finish that level).

==========================
6. Things to Look Out For
==========================

What I mean is that watch out for these things. They can hurt you, depending on
what you do. Some can be useful, so will not.

Barrels: These can be your best friend, or your worst enemies. These are
scattered around many levels, and can help you a lot. To make very good use of
these, lure a lot of enemies to one barrel, and shoot the barrel. It should
explode, and hurt/kill the enemies near it. Or if you shoot the barrel when
you're right next to it, you'll be hurt/killed. Even enemies can blow up
barrels, so you can use them to blow them up and save your ammo.

Crushing Ceilings: Crushing Ceilings can appear at a nasty time, so watch out.
Just like Barrels, these can be your best friend or worst enemy. These ceilings
fall from the ceiling and touch the ground, and rise back to ceiling, and so
on. You'll need to time your moves right to get past these. Also, their good
use is that Crushing Ceilings can also crush and kill enemies, saving your
ammo. But they can crush you too, and these do hurt.

Slime/Lava/Blood: These appear on floors. Slime is green, lava is a mix of red
and yellow, and blood is red. Whenever you step on these kinds of floors, there
is a good chance your health will decrease each second. The amount of health
decreased depends on your armor and what kind of toxic floor you stepped into.
All types of toxic floors cannot hurt enemies, sadly. You will not be hurt from
these floors if you step on them while having an active Radiation Suit on.

===============
7. Walkthrough
===============

First, before you start, you must pick the episode, and then your skill levels.
Here are the skill levels, and some other notes about the game:

Skill levels (from easiest to hardest):

I'm Too Young To Die (Skill level 1)
Hey, Not Too Rough (Skill level 2)
Hurt Me Plenty (Skill level 3)
Ultra Violence (Skill level 4)
Nightmare (Skill level 5)

Obviously, the higher the skill level, the more difficult the game is. Monsters
will also appear in greater numbers in harder skill levels. On "I'm Too Young
to Die", which is the easiest skill level, all ammo that you pick up will be
double than what you find in any other skill level (except for Nightmare). In
addition, on I'm Too Young to Die, any damage you take will be cut in half,
even if you do not have any armor. This means that you could theoretically only
take 1/4 of possible damage on I'm Too Young to Die if you have a MegaArmor in
effect (and 1/3 of possible damage with a Green Armor).

Beware the Nightmare skill level. It is not for inexperienced Doom players.
Enemies respawn, monsters are fast and powerful, but the good thing is you get
double ammo when you pick up ammo, and you can get a kill percentage over 100
too.

What I mean by double ammo is this: For example, when you pick up a box of
Shotgun Shells on skill levels 2, 3, and 4, it will add 20 shells to your
Shotgun Ammo, and 40 in skills 1 and 5. id Software knows you'll need the
double ammo in Skill 5. ;)

Hint: Try to "telefrag" enemies. A telefrag is when you teleport using a
teleporter, and an enemy is on the spot where you teleport to, he will be
killed like that, without using any ammo to destroy it.

The Status Bar:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        |         | 2 | 3 | 4 |       |           |  |           BULL 50 / 200
   50   |  100%   |---|---|---|(your  |     0%    |--|           SHEL 0  / 50
        |         | 5 | 6 | 7 | face) |           |__|           RCKT 0  / 50
  AMMO  | HEALTH  |   ARMS    |       |   ARMOR   |  |           CELL 0  / 300
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ammo: You'll see how many bullets you have for that weapon.

Health: Your survival. When you drop to 0% health, you're dead.
Arms: Shows which weapons you have, the weapon numbers you have are yellow (for
example, if you have the Shotgun, just press 3 to get to it).

Your Face: The marine's face. As your health goes down, your face will start to
bleed, and gets worse as your health slithers away.

Armor: Your armor helps you as it lasts.

The boxes next to armor: In each box, it will show which keys you have.

Other ammo: Shows how much ammo you have for each weapon, and shows how much
ammo you can hold up to for each gun.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Now, here's the walkthrough (note that this walkthrough is not useful for skill
level 5)! Also some enemies I tell you to kill in this game may not be there
because of the skill level so if you don't see an enemy I told you to kill in
this guide, then you're playing a low skill level.

------------------
Level 1: Entryway
------------------

All right, before you jump off the ledge you're on, go left and pick up a
Chainsaw. Now go back to the starting point and jump off the ledge. Equip your
pistol, and shoot the Zombiemen. Pick up the ammo and health in here, and go up
the stairs into an opening. In here, turn right, killing the Zombiemen and the
Imps on hard skill levels. Also, in this hall, go through the opening just to
the right of the Health Potions.

Follow this hall to another room. In here, lower the lift to your right. Kill
the Zombiemen/Imps here, and once the lift rises to the top, check the walls up
here until a hidden door opens. When it opens, kill the Imps/Zombiemen in front
of you. In this little secret room is a switch. Hit it. Now get to the edge of
the lift (don't get off). See that square platform? Back up, then *run* off the
lift and try to land on it. When you do, go to the opening through your left
and follow the hall back to this hallway.

In here, turn right, towards the health potions. You'll see a new opening
across from you. Collect the Health Bonuses and go through the opening. Pick up
the Rocket Launcher (switch back to the Pistol). Now turn around and go back
through the opening to your left, and use the hall to get to the other room.

In here again, go all the way left until you hit a wall. Now turn left and face
the exit door. Facing the exit door, turn around and go through the opening
across from you. Out here, go all the way right and pick up the Shotgun, and
kill or avoid the Imps in here. Now go back into the other room. Back in here,
go to the exit door. If you need any other health before going through, turn
right where the Imp cage is. Search the walls to the right of this Imp cage
until you find a hidden door, revealing a Stimpack and possibly an Imp if it
didn't escape earlier. Now go back to the exit door, open it, and go through
it. In here, kill the Imp, grab the Medikits, get the Clip, and then hit the
exit switch.

--------------------
Level 2: Underhalls
--------------------

From the start, kill the Zombiemen across from you with your Pistol or Shotgun.
Now get to the other end of the room, and open the door. Kill the Zombiemen in
here, and go left to an opening. Kill the Shotgun Guy here, and flip the switch
he was guarding. Now go back to the starting room. Back in this room, get into
the water and go right, through the new opening. Follow this hall until you see
an opening to a door to the left, and kill the Zombiemen and Shotgun Guys in
your way. Go through the opening, and open the door. In here, kill the
Zombiemen and Shotgun Guys in front of you. Collect the health and ammo in
here, and kill the Zombiemen and Shotgun Guys at the other side of the room
too. When they're dead, pick up the Super Shotgun. Now leave this room.

Back in this water hall again, go left until you see a wide staircase to the
left. Climb it and kill the Shotgun Guys up here. From the stairs, go all the
way left, then go right until you hit a wall. Facing the wall, turn right, and
you'll see a window. Get in center with it, then *run* across the small gap to
get through the window. In here, kill the Shotgun Guys, and go up the stairs to
the Red Key.

From the Red Key, check the walls to the left of it until a hidden door opens.
Kill the Shotgun Guys in here, grab the MegaArmor, and go through the
teleporter. You'll be warped back to the level's starting point. From where you
are, get to the other end of the room again, and open to door. In here, go
right, and press the Spacebar in front of the red bars to remove them. Kill the
Shotgun Guy and hit the switch he was guarding. Now leave this room back into
the starting room.

In here, get in the water, and go left, through the new opening. Kill the
Zombiemen and Shotgun Guys in your way, and follow the hall to the second
opening to the right. Go through, kill the Shotgun Guys, and go through the
opening in here. In this room, you'll see two gaps to drop down in the corners.
One to the left, and one to the right. Go down the one to the left. Down here,
kill the Imps, Zombiemen, and Shotgun Guys, and get the Blue Key. Once you get
it, open up the normal door in here. In this room, kill all the Imps,
Zombiemen, and Shotgun Guys here, and open the Blue Door. Go through. Go up the
stairs, through the other Blue Door across from you. Open it, kill the Shotgun
Guys in here, collect their Shotguns, and hit the exit switch.

---------------------
Level 3: The Gantlet
---------------------

From your starting point, open the door in front of you. Collect the Shotgun,
and drop down to the pit below. Kill the Imps down here, and go through the
opening, and up the stairs. At the top, go left, and you'll see a lift to
your right. Press the Spacebar to lower it, and get on board. When it reaches
the top, kill the Imps and the Heavy Weapon Dude (on high skill levels). When
that's done, go down the stairs in front of you, and then walk up the staircase
in front of you, then go down the one in front of you.

In here, collect the Chaingun, then go up the next staircase and collect the
Blue Key. Now open the Blue Door to the left. In here, kill the Zombiemen and
Shotgun Guys in front of you and follow the hall to a switch. Hit it, and Open
the Blue Door to your left. Now, back here, go right down the stairs, then up
the staircase in front of you. You'll be in front of the lift. Now turn right,
and you'll see that a bridge has raised. Follow it to a teleporter, and
take it.

You be teleported in front of a door. Collect the health, and open the door. In
here, drop down to the pit below, and down here, pillars will lower. One of
them reveals the Red Key. Take it. Kill any Imps or Demons here. Also down here
are two switches next to each other. Hit the one to the right and a lift to the
left will lower. Take it to the top and follow it to the Red Door. Open it,
kill the Demon in front of you, and hit the exit switch.

-------------------
Level 4: The Focus
-------------------

From your starting point, open the door in front of you. Kill all the Zombiemen
and Shotgun Guys to the left and across from you. From where you are, go all
the way straight up a staircase (watch out for the Heavy Weapon Dude on high
skill levels). Up here, hit the switch, and go back down the stairs, then go
right, through a door. Open it.

In here, go right, and follow the hall to the Blue Key, killing any Imps in
your way. Now turn around, and follow the hall to the Blue Door. Open it. In
here, follow this dark hall to another room, killing any Imps in your way.
You'll get to a room with crates and Imps. Kill all the Imps, and look around
for a switch. To the right of it is a small box. Step on it and a crate behind
you will lower. While it's down, get on it (it's where the Health Potions are).

Once it rises to the top, cross the crates carefully to get to the Red Key.
Once you have it, drop down to the left and take the teleporter. You'll be
teleported to the room just after the starting room. Now go all the way
straight to the door across from you, and open the Red Door to the left. In
here, open the other Red Door. In this room, go straight and pick up the Yellow
Key. Now drop down to the pit below you.

Now switch to your Automap. You'll see an opening down in the southwest. Go
through it, and in here, kill the Shotgun Guy, collect the health, and go
through the teleporter. You'll be warped to a platform. Kill the Heavy Weapon
Dude here, hit the switch up here, and go through the teleporter. Now that the
other half of the bridge has raised, you can cross it to the Yellow Door. Open
it, and hit the exit switch in here.

---------------------------
Level 5: The Waste Tunnels
---------------------------

Collect the Shotgun/Super Shotgun in front of you, and go through the opening.
In here, kill the enemies to the left, and walk up to the door you see. When
you do, the floor you're on will drop. Down here, kill the Imps in front of
you. Now go all the way straight to the lift that the Imps were in front of.
Press the Spacebar to lower it. Take it to the top. When it rises, kill the
Shotgun Guys and Heavy Weapon Dudes in here, then open the door in the west
part of this room. In here, kill all the Zombiemen, collect the health and ammo
here, and go through the opening in this room.

In here, get the Red Key in front of you, and then go through the opening
behind you. Kill the Lost Souls here, and then go all the way straight, drop
down to the ground below you, and go all the way right to the Red Door. In
kill the Hell Knight (hard skill levels), and climb up the stairs to get to the
Blue Key. Now before you get to the other Red Door, look for the Green Torch
here. Walk up to it, press the space bar, go through the small opening to the
left, and *run* (and I mean run) all the way straight to a dropped floor.

Now get into the secret room before the floor rises again. In here, collect the
Plasma Gun and hit the switch. The floor will drop again. Now ride it up to the
top. Back up here, go through an opening and drop to the floor below you. Down
here, kill the enemies and lower the lift in front of you. Get onto it, and
when it rises to the top, open the Blue Door in front of you.

In this room, walk around either path and grab the Yellow Key. Now a bridge
will rise to the Yellow Door. Go across the bridge, and open the Yellow Door.
In here, hit the exit switch.

---------------------
Level 6: The Crusher
---------------------

At the start of the level, walk forward into the larger room. Kill any Imps or
Shotgun Guys in the area. Also, watch out for the Revenant on the hard skill
levels. While walking forward, notice the pillars on your left. One of them has
a few markings on them. Examine this pillar and it will lower, revealing a
Megasphere, so pick it up. Now, head through the opening in the southwest
corner of this room. The floor you're on will lower, taking you into a larger
room.

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
NOTE: The Blue Key is in this room. However, the Blue Key is in one of three
different locations, depending on your skill level. Below are the locations for
the Blue Key:

-If you are playing on the skill levels "I'm Too Young to Die" or "Hey, Not Too
Rough", the Blue Key is located underneath the crusher. To get there, when the
lift you're on is at the bottom, go through the opening to your right. Head up
the stairs and pick up the Blue Key at the top. In addition, pick up the Plasma
Gun and kill the Hell Knights.

-If you are playing on the skill level "Hurt Me Plenty", stay on the lift and
wait until it goes back up to the top. Once it is back on the top, turn left
and face the opening leading out of the lift. Across from you is a platform in
the corner of the room. Back up and RUN through the opening and land on the
platform. The Blue Key is on this platform, so pick it up.

-If you are playing on the skill levels "Ultra Violence" or "Nightmare", get
onto the platform where you found the Blue Key on Hurt Me Plenty. There is a
switch on this platform. Turn to the right and you should see the Blue Key on
the other side of the room, sitting on top of a lift. Hit the switch next to
you. The lift with the Blue Key will lower, so RUN to it and pick up the Blue
Key before the lift rises back up. If the lift rises back up before you can get
to it, jump into the slime river, go into the opening at the end, and take the
teleporter. You'll be teleported in front of the crusher. Turn around and
you'll see the lift you used to enter this room. Get back on it and try again.
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

While in this room, you should also be aware of the Spider Mastermind that
appears here on hard skill levels. However, you can easily kill it without
firing a single bullet at it. At the bottom of the lift you used to enter this
room is a switch. Hitting the switch activates the crushing ceiling. Hit the
switch and then get to a safe place, away from the Spider Mastermind's line of
fire. Sit back and wait while the crushing ceiling eventually kills the Spider
Mastermind. You can also use it to kill the Hell Knights that appear on easier
skill levels. You can stop the crusher by simply going up the stairs and
walking right under it, once you have everything taken care of.

Once you have the Blue Key, be sure to pick up the Plasma Gun underneath the
crusher, whatever the skill level you're playing on is. Once everything is
taken care of, go back to the lift you used to enter this room, lower it, get
on it, and get back to the level's starting area. Back in here, go all the way
left, kill the Shotgun Guys and Heavy Weapon Dudes here, collect the ammo and
health. Now open the Blue Door in this room.

Kill the Shotgun Guy in front of you, and hit the switch to your left. The lift
behind you will lower, and kill any Imps appearing. Get on the lift, and when
the lift rises to the top, follow the hall to a door (skip the opening you'll
see on the right), killing any Shotgun Guys or Imps on the way. When you get to
the door, open it, and then hit the switch to your right. The lift to your left
will lower, and you can drop down and open the door down here. Do so.

Collect the health in here, then proceed up the stairs, killing any enemies
in your way. Watch out for the ambushes here, even the one with Revenants. At
the top, *run* across a small gap to get to another platform. Get the Red Key
over here. Now the floor you're on will lower, and watch out for the enemies
beneath you. Kill them, and collect the ammo and health here. Now exit this
room. Back in here, hit the switch to the left and the lift to your right will
lower. Get on it, and when it rises, open the door. Back in this hall, go to
the opening we skipped (not the new one with Imps in it), and go to the Red
Door. Open it.

In this room, go right, and cross the ledge into a hall. Follow this into the
other end of the room. Over here, go through the opening across from you,
killing the enemies in your way. In this opening, open the door. In here, go
all the way left until you hit a wall, then all the way right until you see the
Yellow Key on a crate. Hit the switch next to it, and it will lower. Now, get
the Yellow Key, and go through any teleporter you passed by.

Up here, kill the Imps/Shotgun Guys/Hell Knights, and hit the switch in this
room. Now turn around, go through the opening, and when the bridge is finished
rising, cross it to the Yellow Door. Open it. In here, kill any enemy in front
of you and hit the exit switch.

Now before you start the next level you get a little story:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
YOU HAVE ENTERED DEEPLY INTO THE INFESTED
STARPORT. BUT SOMETHING IS WRONG. THE
MONSTERS HAVE BROUGHT THEIR OWN REALITY
WITH THEM, AND THE STARPORT'S TECHNOLOGY
IS BEING SUBVERTED BY THEIR PRESENCE.

AHEAD, YOU SEE AN OUTPOST OF HELL, A
FORTIFIED ZONE. IF YOU CAN GET PAST IT,
YOU CAN PENETRATE INTO THE HAUNTED HEART
OF THE STARBASE AND FIND THE CONTROLLING
SWITCH WHICH HOLDS EARTH'S POPULATION
HOSTAGE.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

---------------------
Level 7: Dead Simple
---------------------

From where you are, hit the switch in front of you. The walls around you will
lower. You'll see 4/6 Mancubi (plural for Mancubus) in front of you. Use your
Rocket Launchers, Super Shotgun, and Plasma Gun to kill these. When they're all
dead, more walls will lower, revealing Arachnotrons. Use a Super Shotgun, a
Chaingun, a Rocket Launcher, or your Plasma Gun to kill these. When they're all
dead, stairs will rise to the exit switch in the center of the map. Before you
exit, hit the switches in this room and the platforms the Mancubi were on
will lower, revealing health and weapons. Also, from where the Arachnotrons
came, get the ammo/health from there. Now go back to the center of the map and
exit.

--------------------------
Level 8: Tricks and Traps
--------------------------

NOTE: This level is plentiful of awesome secrets, so I will guide some of the
good secrets here. If you don't want any of the items, read from paragraph 4
on.

You start out in a room full of doors. Also, one is Red and one is Yellow. When
you start the level, open the door to the right of the Yellow Door, and go
through. In here, get to the other end of the room, and watch out for all the
Cacodemons. At the end of the room, get the Plasma Gun and the ammo, then hit
the switch. Once you hit the switch, leave this room, and watch out for the
Cacodemons. Back in here, open the door to the right of the room you just
entered, and go through. In here, follow the left hand wall to a Rocket
Launcher. When you get to the Rocket Launcher, pick it up. Now, turn around.

There should be a staircase rising in front of you, so head up it, killing the
Demons in your way. At the top there are 2 switches. Hit the one to the left,
and turn around. See that new opening where the Rocket Launcher was? Go through
it. In here, pick up the Soulsphere across from you. When you pick it up, turn
around, and you'll notice the walls to your left and right have opened. Face
the wall to the left, and you'll notice a demon head symbol on the wall. Shoot
it with your Fist, Chainsaw, Pistol, either Shotgun, or Chaingun, and it will
open, revealing a BFG9000. PICK IT UP! Once you have the BFG, turn left, and go
back in the room where the Soulsphere was.

In here, grab all the Backpacks in this room, then leave. Back in here, go all
the way straight to the staircase across from you (with your back against the
opening to the "Backpack room"). At the top of the staircase, hit the switch to
your right. Now, head back down the stairs. Back down here, turn left, and
leave this room. You'll be back in the level's starting room.

Back in here, open the second door to the left of the Red Door, and go through.
In here, turn right. You'll see a Cyberdemon facing you but the Barons of Hell
aren't. Let the Cyberdemon try to attack you, and he will hit the Barons
instead, so let them all fight. Kill whoever wins the fight (all the Barons or
the Cyberdemon), and get the Yellow Key in this room (also get the
Invincibility Sphere and the Soulsphere), and hit the switch next to the Yellow
Key. Now, leave this room.

Back out here, open the Yellow Door, and go through. In here, follow the left
hand wall to the Red Key. When you get to the Red Key, pick it up. Now, turn
around, and pillars will be lowering, revealing Imps and Barons of Hell. Kill
them all, and when they're all dead, hit the switch in this room. When you hit
the switch, leave this room. Back in here, get in front of the Red Door, and
save your game. Now open it, and go through. In here, use the platforms to get
to the exit door (if you fall down, re-load your game and start again). When
you get to the exit door, open it, and go through. In here, hit the exit
switch.

-----------------
Level 9: The Pit
-----------------

Pick up the MegaArmor next to you, and then go and lower the lift that you
started in front of. When it gets down to the bottom, get on it, and pick up
the Shotgun. When the lift rises to the top, kill the Zombiemen in front of
you, and go straight, and kill the Imps and Shotgun Guys up here. Also, from
where the lift was, go straight, and then right, and then hit the switch to
your right. Now turn around and lower the lift behind you. Get on it, and when
it rises to the top, hit the switch over here. An opening will reveal, allowing
you to access ammo and health.

Now from where you are, *run* straight to get to the new bridge that raised.
From where you are, get on the platform to your left, and go through the
opening. Kill all the enemies in this room. When they're all dead, drop down in
the slime pit in the middle of the room, and the floor in front of you should
lower like a lift. Get on it, and try to find the door here. When you do, open
it, and the door will lower this time.

In this room, check the walls to your right until a hidden door opens. Kill the
Lost Soul in front of you and get the BFG9000 (YEESSS!). Now turn around and
exit this room, and then *run* across the gap to get back on the other area,
and equip your Super Shotgun. Leave this room too, back into the room where you
took a lift to get up to.

From the opening you came out of, go right, and enter the first opening to your
right. Hit the switch in here, and turn around. Now the wall has raised, and
kill every new appearing enemy, especially that annoying Pain Elemental. Now go
to where those enemies came from, and hit the switch. A new opening to your
left has been revealed. From where you are, *run* straight to get to the
platform next to you. When you land on it, drop down to the floor to the left
and a platform in front of you should've lowered. Now *run* to it and get the
Blue Key (kill the Imps on it too). Now go back and get on the silver square on
the floor. Stairs should rise (don't go up them). Now open the only door in
this room, and go through. You'll be back here.

In here again, go up the stairs to the left, and go all the way straight and
you'll be right back here. Now *run* straight to get to the same platform, and
hit the switch here, and now open the Blue Door over here too. Hit the switch
in front of you. Now turn back around, jump off this platform, and go up the
new stairs we created through stepping on the silver square in here, and go
through the opening. You'll come across a pedestal with 3 switches on it. Hit
the one on the east part of the pedestal, and a door across from you will open.
Go through.

In here, drop to the bit below you, and go through the opening to the left.
In here, kill the Imps, collect the Health Bonuses, and hit the switch in here.
Now *run* back outside and get on the lowered lift to the left. Kill the
enemies on this platform, and get the Yellow Key. When you get it, turn around.
You'll see two openings. One to the left and one to the right. Both lead to
switches. Go through the opening to the left and hit the switch over there
first. Now go to the other opening and hit the other switch. Now *run* back
into the pit, and get on the new lowered platform to the left. Kill the enemies
on this one, hit the switch on the wall over here, get back in the pit, and get
on the new lowered platform to the left.

When this platform rises to the top, go through the re-opened opening and back
into the room with the pedestal. See the wall with Health Potions in front of
it (or a wall with no black door on it)? Go up to it and press the spacebar. It
will open. In this room, open the only door in this room and go through. In
here, go right towards all the lifts, drop in the pit, and lower the lift to
the left of where you came from. Ride it to the top. Kill the Zombiemen here,
collect the health/ammo, and open the Yellow Door in here. Now follow this hall
to a pit, ignore the enemies, and jump in. Get the Health Potions, open the
exit door, and hit the exit switch.

-------------------------
Level 10: Refueling Base
-------------------------

Before you go down the stairs, check the walls up here until a hidden door
opens. In this room is a Shotgun with a few power-ups. Now go back, down the
stairs, pick up the Box of Shotgun Shells, and go in the opening across from
you. Kill all the enemies in here, and go through the opening in this room. In
this room, open the door on your left, and go through.

In here, go right, kill the Zombiemen/Shotgun Guys in your way, and when you
get to a "4-Way Intersection", go straight until you hit a wall. Over here,
turn right, and go through the first opening to the right and snatch the Yellow
Key. Now turn around, go right, and into the opening next to the wall to the
left. Hit the switch here, and turn around. Go through the new opening.

In this opening, follow this hall to a wall. Press the Spacebar on it, and
it should open. In here, climb up the little staircase in front of you, and
when you get to the top, a hidden door should open, revealing the Blue Key. Now
turn around, go down the stairs, then left, then left again into a bigger room.
Try to ignore the enemies here, and go through the opening to the right of
where you came from. Open the door in this opening.

Back in this room, go straight, and then left into the first opening. Follow
this opening into a bigger room. In here, open the door across from you. Kill
all the Imps in this dark room, and open the only Yellow Door in this room. In
this next room, open the Blue Door. In the room above you there's a Cyberdemon
on skills 4 and 5. Try to ignore it. Now in this room, get to the exit door.
Open it, and hit the exit switch.

--------------------------
Level 11: Circle of Death
--------------------------

Note that this level is called "0 of Destruction!" in the Automap.

Heh, you actually start on a circular platform. Anyways, from where you start,
head right, and kill any Zombiemen/Shotgun Guys/Heavy Weapon Dudes in your way.
Go into the first opening you see. In here, kill the Imps, collect the health
and ammo, and go up the stairs. Up here, kill the Arachnotrons, and go up
either staircase in here. At the top, kill the Zombiemen, and go through the
opening up here. In this opening is the Blue Key. When you try to get it, an
Arch-vile will come out to attack you. If you see fire on you, escape from his
view so he can't see you, then go back to attack him before he raises the dead.

When he's dead, get the Blue Key, and the Plasma Gun in the same room. Now
leave this room, go back down either staircase, and back onto the circular
platform. From where you are, get to the other end of the circle, and open the
Blue Door. In here, follow this hall to a pedestal. Kill the enemies in front
of it, and hit the switch on the pedestal. Now go through the other opening in
this room.

In here, a bridge is rising to another switch. When the bridge is done rising,
cross it to get to the switch. Kill the Spectres in your way, then hit the
switch. Now turn around, jump into the slime pit, and get on the floor with the
Shotgun on it. On here, climb the stairs onto the circular platform. Facing the
middle of the circle, you'll see a bridge has raised to the Red Key. Get to the
other end of the circle, cross the bridge, kill any un-killed enemies, and get
the Red Key. Now turn around, cross the bridge onto the circle, jump into the
slime pit, go all the way left, then right, to the Red Door. Open it, and go
through.

Kill the Shotgun Guys in your way, then head right, towards a set of bars.
Walkup to them and they will be removed. Kill the Lost Souls here, and head up
the stairs to the left. Follow them to a pole with a switch on it. Hit it, and
kill the enemies around you. Now that the barriers are lowering, *run* to the
new path you can now access. Follow it to another room.

In here, try to ignore the Cacodemons, and go through the opening at the other
end of the room. In this opening, drop down to the floor below you. In here,
kill the Shotgun Guy, go left, turn left again, and lower the lift over here.
Get on it, and when it rises to the top, collect the health here, kill the Imp,
and hit the switch. Now go back down the lift, and back here again, go all the
way right, and then turn right again to this lowered lift. Once it rises to the
top, hit the switch up here, kill the Imp, and drop down back here. Now turn
left, and go through the opening to the right. Go straight and hit the exit
switch.

Now, before you can get to the next level, you get another story:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
YOU HAVE WON! YOUR VICTORY HAS ENABLED
HUMANKIND TO EVACUATE EARTH AND ESCAPE
THE NIGHTMARE. NOW YOU ARE THE ONLY
HUMAN LEFT ON THE FACE OF THE PLANET.
CANNIBAL MUTATIONS, CARNIVOROUS ALIENS,
AND EVIL SPIRITS ARE YOUR ONLY NEIGHBORS.
YOU SIT BACK AND WAIT FOR DEATH, CONTENT
THAT YOU HAVE SAVED YOUR SPECIES.

BUT THEN, EARTH CONTROL BEAMS DOWN A
MESSAGE FROM SPACE: "SENSORS HAVE LOCATED
THE SOURCE OF THE ALIEN INVASION. IF YOU
GO THERE, YOU MAY BE ABLE TO BLOCK THEIR
ENTRY. THE ALIEN BASE IS IN THE HEART OF
YOUR OWN HOME CITY, NOT FAR FROM THE
STARPORT." SLOWLY AND PAINFULLY YOU GET
UP AND RETURN TO THE FRAY.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

----------------------
Level 12: The Factory
----------------------

From your starting point, go all the way right until you hit a wall. From
here, go all the way left until you hit a wall. Facing the wall you just hit,
turn around and go up the staircase. At the top, go straight until you see a
door to your right, and kill any Arachnotrons in your way. When you get to the
door, open it (the door will lower instead), and then jump into the pit below
you. Down here, go straight until you get to the center of the room, and then
go right, through the opening.

In this hall, go right and get the Blue Key. Either kill or escape the
Arachnotron above you. When you get the Blue Key, turn around and get to the
other end of the hall. Over here, open the door to your left. Kill the enemy
in front of you, and get the Yellow Key. Now, leave this room, and from here,
go all the way right (skip the first opening), and enter the second opening to
the right.

Over here again, turn left and open the Blue Door. In here, go straight, and
the floor you're on will lower. Kill the Shotgun Guys down here, collect their
Shotguns, collect the Health, and take the teleporter. You'll be teleported
outside. Kill the enemies around you, and before you jump off the platform
you're on, look for two green torches next to each other around you. When you
see them, jump off the platform, and go to them.

The Yellow Door is in between those torches. Open it. In here, collect the
Berserk Pack, and open the door across from you. There are lots of elevators in
here, and each one contains a Cacodemon, and 5 of them have switches you need
to hit in order to exit. Kill the Cacodemons, look for the 5 switches in the
lifts, and hit each one you see. When you hit all five of them, an opening next
to the door you took to get in this room will be accessible. Go through it, and
take the exit teleporter you'll meet up to.

-------------------
Level 13: Downtown
-------------------

From where you are, go all the way straight until you see a set of teleporters.
Take anyone (you'll be warped to the same place). When you teleport up here,
turn left, and *run* to get to the area across from you (kill the Cacodemons in
your way first if you have to). When you get on this platform, open the door
here. In this room, you'll see a teleporter. Don't go in it. Instead, go down
the stairs to the right.

Down here, you'll see two doors. Open the door on the left. In here, follow the
hall to a brown wall, and kill any enemies in your way. When you walk up to the
wall, exit this room. Now go left. The other door has opened. Get the Blue
Key and take the teleporter right here. You'll be warped back to the starting
point.

Back here, go all the way straight again and take the same set of teleporters.
Up here again, turn around, and *run* straight to get to the platform across
from you. Kill the Revenants here, and open the Blue Door. In this room, jump
down to the left, and take the teleported. You'll be warped right next to the
Red Key. Pick it up, and kill the Imps and Demons around you.

Now jump off the platform you're on, and go all the way straight back to the
starting point of this level. Just where you started there's an opening to the
left. Go through it, and over here, open the Red Door at the building. In here,
kill the Imps and Spectres you see, and walk up to the lift in front of you.
Wait for it to lower. When it reaches the bottom, get on it, kill the Imps on
it, and wait for the lift to reach its highest.

When it gets to the top, face the door you entered to get here, and look right.
You'll see the Yellow Key on the platform. Now *run* straight and get it. When
you have the Yellow Key, leave this room. Back out here, go right until you hit
a wall, and then look left, and go through the opening to the right. Go through
this hallway.

When you get to the end of hit go left until you see an opening to the right.
Go through it and get to the Yellow Door in the opening in the left. Kill any
Arachnotrons/Cacodemons you might see. Open the Yellow Door. In here get the
Berserk Pack, and step in the lava in the middle (it's the exit).

--------------------------
Level 14: The Inmost Dens
--------------------------

From your starting point, go right, and go right again, down the stairs. Down
here, go all the way straight, then left, killing any Shotgun Guys in your
way. Over here you'll see a door. Walk up to it and it will open. Kill the
enemy you'll see when it opens. Now walk up straight to the next door, and this
door will open. In here, go right, and then left, and left again up the stairs.

Up here, open the door in front of you. In here, go straight, towards the wide
opening. Get in center with it, back up, and *run* through the opening to get
to a platform across from you. When you get on the platform, go straight into
another room, and in here, follow the hall to the left to the Red Key and a
Plasma Gun, killing any Imps, Zombiemen, Shotgun Guys, or Heavy Weapon Dudes in
your way.

Once you have the Red Key, turn around, go back into the opening we used to get
in this room, cross this platform again, and then *run* to get to the area
across from you. Over here, go right, then left, towards the same doors we used
to get here, and walk up to both doors again to have them open. In here, go
left, then right, and get to the Red Door next to the Red Bars. Open the Red
Door, hit the switch inside, and it will lower the Red Bars.

Now, get to where the Red Bars were, and walk up to this door, and it will
open. In this room, walk up to this door, and it will open. In here, kill the
Zombiemen and Shotgun Guys, and that Arch-vile on Ultra Violence (and also kill
the Heavy Weapon Dudes in the cages). When all the enemies are gone, open the
door in this room.

Kill the Zombiemen, Shotgun Guys, Imps, and Heavy Weapon Dudes in this room,
walk up the stairs, and go right and pick up the Blue Key. When you do, leave
this room, go straight, walk up to the door across from you to make it open, do
the same to open the door in this room, and then in this room again, go right,
then left, and right again to the door, walk up to it to open it, do the same
to open the door in here.

In this room again, go right, then left, then left again up the stairs, open
the door, go straight, *run* through the opening across from you to get on a
different platform, and then cross the platform into here again. This time, go
right, and follow the hall to an opening.

Facing the opening, *run* straight to get on the next platform. Go through the
opening here, then go right, and then left. Over here, kill the Shotgun Guys,
and over here, one of the openings connects to a bridge. Go through the
opening, across the bridge, and open the Blue Door across from you.

In this room, kill the Heavy Weapon Dude, go down the stairs, and get in center
with the opening across from you. Now *run* through the opening to get to the
door that you can see. When you get to the door, open it. In this room, hit
the exit switch.

--------------------------
Level 15: Industrial Zone
--------------------------

When you start the level, pick up the Medikits in front of you if you need
them. Then open the door to your left and go through it. In this room, pick up
the Shotgun and the Box of Shotgun Shells, and then hit the switch next to the
door. The lift you're on will lower, and when it gets to the bottom, step
outside. Out here, kill the Zombiemen and the Shotgun Guys around you. Then
head left and you'll get to a switch on a pedestal. Hit the switch and the wall
behind the switch will lower, revealing a staircase and a walkway. Kill all of
the Zombiemen and Shotgun Guys surrounding you. Afterwards, go on the steps in
the lava pit and pick up the MegaArmor at the top.

Once you have the MegaArmor, drop down to the ground below you. Down here, turn
right and head to the wooden building across from you. When you get to it, head
left until you get to another wooden building, killing any Shotgun Guys or
Zombiemen in your way. When you get to the next wooden building, go right and
you'll find a lava pit to your left. Jump into the lava pit. Quickly follow the
wooden wall on the left until you get to a teleporter. Step through the
teleporter when you get to it.

After you teleport, pick up the BFG in front of you. The wall in front of you
will open, revealing a Baron of Hell, so quickly kill it. Go into the room the
Baron of Hell was in and the next wall will open, revealing a Pain Elemental.
Kill the Pain Elemental and then pick up the Yellow Key. Once you have the
Yellow Key, turn around. Kill any Cacodemons or Pain Elementals across from
you, and then hit the switch on the pedestal across from you. This will create
a staircase behind the switch, so head up it.

At the top, look across from you. You should see an area below you with the
Yellow Door, on the other side of the pit. Be sure to back up and RUN forward
to get across the pit and onto the ground. When you land, kill the surrounding
Zombiemen and Shotgun Guys, and then open the Yellow Door to the left and go
through it. In here, kill the Imps and Shotgun Guys in front of you. Now get in
the lava river. Pick up the Radiation Suit in the alcove at the front of the
river. Now head down the river through the opening. Follow this lava river
until you get to a room with a switch, killing any Imps, Shotgun Guys, or a
Pain Elemental in your way. When you get to the switch, hit it. Now go back in
the lava river to the previous area.

Back in here, head up the new set of stairs to your right. Kill the Cacodemon
along the way if you encounter it. At the top of the stairs, hit the switch.
This will lower a lift, so get on it and ride it to the top. Up here, kill the
Shotgun Guys and the Heavy Weapon Dudes around you. Now, you have the option to
go straight or right. Turn to the right. You should see the edge of the tower
across from you. Save your game and then RUN off the edge of the tower. You
should run off the building, across the lava pit, and onto a small platform in
the pit. If you don't land on this little platform, reload your saved game.
This platform should have a switch, a Radiation Suit, and two Energy Cell
Packs. You'll probably pick up everything when you land on this platform. Hit
the switch and then drop into the lava pit.

Hitting that switch will open a hidden door in the eastern part of the lava
pit, so from the switch, go all the way straight into the new opening. In here,
follow this path to a larger room. Kill the Cacodemons in this room and then
pick up the Invincibility Sphere in the middle of the room. Once you have the
Invincibility Sphere, leave this room and go back to the larger pit. Back in
here, follow the wooden wall on the right until you get to the same teleporter
you used earlier. Step on the teleporter once you get to it. Back up here, turn
around, go back up the stairs, and RUN across the pit onto the area below you.
Back down here, go through the Yellow Door to your left.

Back in this room, get back into the lava river and go through the opening
across from you. Go down this river again and you'll find a new opening to your
left. Go down the opening and you'll find the exit teleporter at the end of the
hallway. This takes you to the secret level, so step on it to get out of here.

Before you start the secret level, you get a little story:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONGRATULATIONS, YOU'VE FOUND THE SECRET
LEVEL! LOOKS LIKE IT'S BEEN BUILT BY
HUMANS, RATHER THAN DEMONS. YOU WONDER
WHO THE INMATES OF THIS CORNER OF HELL
WILL BE.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

----------------------
Level 31: Wolfenstein
----------------------

Ok, if you have the German version of Doom II, don't bother reading this or the
next level (anything that has Nazi symbols in it are forbidden by law in
Germany, and when you try to enter this level in the German version, it will
just take you to Level 16). Anyway, this is a replica of the very first level
in Wolfenstein 3D.

Anyway, open the door in front of you at the start. In here, open the door at
the far left. Kill the Nazis (WolfSS) in here, pick up their ammo, and open the
other door. In here, kill the Nazis, and go through the door across from you.
In here, kill the Nazis across from you, and go in the opening to the left.

In this little alcove, kill any Nazis, and walk up to the picture. Press the
Spacebar on it, and it will open. In here, get the ammo, the health, and the
Rocket Launcher. Now leave this room, and back in here, open the door at the
left.

In this room, kill the Nazis, and open the door on the left. In here, go
straight, and then left. Kill the Nazis over here, and also open the door over
here. In this room, kill the Nazis, and also open the door on the left from
where you came from. Now, in this empty room, open the door across from you.

Now, in here, kill all the Nazis, and open the door across from the door you
came from. In this room, go straight, then left, and then open the door,
killing any Nazis in your way. In here, kill the Nazis. Now, from where you
entered, check the walls to the right until a hidden door opens. In here,
collect the Medikit, and check the walls in here too until a hidden door opens.

Now, go straight and you'll find another exit door. Before you open it check
the walls to the left until a hidden door opens. In here is a Soulsphere. Grab
it, and now open the exit door. Hit the switch in here (this takes you to
another secret exit ;)).

Now, before you start the next level, you get another story:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONGRATULATIONS, YOU'VE FOUND THE
SUPER SECRET LEVEL! YOU'D BETTER
BLAZE THROUGH THIS ONE!
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-----------------
Level 32: Grosse
-----------------

Collect the Rocket Launcher, the Berserk, and open the door in front of you at
your starting point. Here's another familiar level: The last level of Episode 1
in Wolfenstein 3D. Anyway, kill the Nazis here, and you'll obviously see
rectangular pillars. 4 of them are secrets. Here's which pillars to check:
_____________|         |_____________
|                                    |
|      ____                ____      |
|     | 4  |              | 3  |     |
|     |____|              |____|     |
|                                    |
|      ____                ____      |
|     |    |              |    |     |
|     |____|              |____|     |
|                                    |
|      ____                ____      |
|     |    |              |    |     |
|     |____|              |____|     |
|                                    |
|      ____                ____      |
|     |    |              |    |     |
|     |____|              |____|     |
|                                    |
|      ____                ____      |
|     | 1  |              | 2  |     |
|     |____|              |____|     |
|                                    |
|                                    |
|                                    |
|___________            _____________|
            |          |
            |          |
            |    X     |
            |          |
            |          |
            |__________|
      |-----|          |-----|
      |                      |
      |                      |
      |                      |
      |      Starting Room   |


Say the X is you. There are 10 pillars in this room. Check the pillars that
have numbers on them. 1 has 3 Chainguns, 2 has a Megasphere, 3 has a Super
Shotgun with 2 Boxes of Shotgun Shells, and 4 has a BFG. Also, to the both
sides of this room, you'll see gold Nazi Plates. Walk up to each and press the
Spacebar. Two of them will open (remember to check both sides of this room).

Once you find the two Plates that open, you'll see that one of them shows an
Invincibility Sphere, and the other leads to another room with loads of
Medikits, Energy Cells, and a Plasma Gun. When you're done collecting all this,
go back into the room with the 10 pillars, and walk up to the door we haven't
opened yet. It will open, revealing a Cyberdemon.

Do whatever you can to kill it (use Rocket Launcher and BFG, and the
Invincibility Sphere can help), and when it's dead, go into the room it came
out of, and open the door in here. In this room you'll see 4 Commander Keens.
Kill each one, and a silver wall will open in the center of the room, revealing
an exit switch. Now, from the floor, *run* to get up onto the platform. Up
here, hit the exit switch.

------------------
Level 16: Suburbs
------------------

At the start, go straight, and open the door. Out here, go left, and you'll
come across an opening. Go through it. In here, go right, and then right again.
Over here, go all the way straight until you hit the wall way across from you.
When you touch the wall, go all the way right, into the slime pit across from
you. In the slime pit, head up the spiral stairs, killing any Imps in your way.
Follow it to a Blue Key.

When you have the Blue Key, jump off the platform you're on, and *run* (and I
mean run) all the way straight before you're caught in a major enemy jam. Over
here, keep going straight until you see an opening to the right. Go through,
and you'll come across stairs to your left. Go up them, and kill any Revenants
you might see.

At the top of the stairs, go through the opening across from you. In this room,
kill all of the Demons, and open the only door in this room. In this room, go
straight, and open the Blue Door, and kill any enemies in your way. In this
room, collect the Shotgun Ammo and get the Red Key, then leave this room.

Back in here again, go right and open the same door you did to get here. In
this room, jump off the ledge across from you and go straight, to all of those
black and white platforms. Down here, walk up to the highest one on the ground,
and press the spacebar on it. It will lower, and when it's at the bottom, get
on it. When it rises to the top, jump down to either pit below you.

When you hit the ground again in either of the two small pits, check each
pillar around you. One of them will lower. When it's finished lowering, get on
it, and ride it to the top. When it's at the top, drop down to the ground
slightly below you. When you land, press the spacebar on the same pillar you
just took to get here.

When you do, the pillar will lower. Now turn around. The wall has lowered too.
Kill all the Imps here, and go into the new room. If the wall raises again,
just lower the pillar and turn around again. When all of the Imps are dead,
get into the room they came from, and press the Spacebar in front of the Red
Bar. It will open, allowing you to get to the exit teleporter. Now, step on the
exit teleporter, and you're out of this level.

--------------------
Level 17: Tenements
--------------------

Collect the Shotgun Shells in front of you, and go straight. In this room, kill
all of the Shotgun Guys and Zombiemen, and go through the only opening in this
room (besides the one from the starting room). In this room, walk carefully
down the stairs to the Health and the Red Key. Kill the Imps in front of you
too (and any Cacodemons). If the opening you entered to get here shuts down,
don't panic. Facing the shut down opening, drop in the pit to the left, and go
straight. You'll see part of a teleporter next to the wall across from you.
Take it.

You'll be warped to the right of the opening you took to get to the Red Key. Go
up the stairs to the left of you, and open the Red Door. Kill the Spectres in
here, collect all of the ammo and health in this room, and hit the switch.
Now leave this room. Out here, go up the stairs across from you.

Up here, collect the Shotgun, ammo, and health, and hit the switch in this room
(it lowers a lift you're on). Down here, kill the Spectres, collect the health,
and kill the Hell Knight you might see. Go on the ledge across from you.
Follow it to a switch. Hit it, and a lift near you will lower. Ride it to the
top. Up here, kill the Imps, and hit the switch up here (the green/red one).
When you hit that switch, hit the other switch in this room (it's a door). Drop
down back into the starting room.

Back down here, go through the opening to your right. In here, go through the
new opening across from you. In here, go through the opening to the right, and
up the stairs. Up here, kill the Imps/Shotgun Guys/Heavy Weapon Dudes. Go all
the way straight, and over here, go through the opening to the left, and drop
in the pit below (kill any Shotgun Guys in your way). Down here, hit the switch
to lower the platform in front of you.

When it's done lowering, go straight and hit the new visible switch. Now, wait
until the platform you're on rises again. When it reaches the top, go straight,
kill the Shotgun Guys in front of you, and go through the new opening to the
left. Kill the Spectre in front of you, and go up the stairs. Up here, hit the
switch, collect the ammo and armor, and go through the opening up here. Drop
down to the room below you.

Down here again, go straight to the newly raised bridge. Follow it to a gap.
Drop down in hit. Hit the switch down here, and the floor will rise to the
other platforms (and a new bridge will rise at the other side of the room). So,
when this platform rises to the top, get to the other end of the room, and
cross the new bridge.

Kill any Cacodemons/Revenants over here, collect the health and the Blue Key,
and exit this room (back outside). Out here, go all the way straight to the
Blue Door. In here, kill the Shotgun Guys and Imps in front of you. Also in
this room, go up the staircase to the left. Up here, kill the Heavy Weapon
Dude and the Zombiemen, and then walk forward and you'll hear the sound of a
door open.

Go back down stairs and go through the new opening across from you. Grab the
Soulsphere in here, and go back up the same stairs. A pedestal with a switch
up here has been raised. Hit the switch, go back down the stairs, go right, and
go up the stairs over here. Up here, kill the Heavy Weapon Dude, and go through
the opening to your left.

In here, go left. Kill the enemies in front of you, and then follow this
hallway to an opening to the left. Go through it, and drop down into the pit
below you. Walk forward to the lift across from you, and it will lower. Get on
it and get the Rocket Launcher and the Yellow Key. Kill any remaining enemies
on this platform too.

When the lift rises back to the top again, jump off the platform you're on and
exit this room. In here, go left to the Yellow Bars. Facing the Yellow Bars,
turn around and open the Yellow Door. In here, flip the switch, and turn
around, and you'll see the bars have lowered. Now go into this new
accessible room.

In this room, go straight into another opening. Grab the Shotgun Ammo just
before it. Once you go through this opening, you'll see two staircases. Take
the left staircase. Follow it to another room. In this room, go in the opening
to your right, and open the door.

In here, kill the Heavy Weapon Dudes you see. When they're dead, equip your
BFG. As you walk up the stairs you'll see an Archvile in a cage. Use your BFG
to kill it. Now go all the way up the stairs. At the top you'll get to a
switch. Hit it, and get back to the door you used to get to this room. Open it.

Back in this room, drop down to the floor below you, and go in the opening to
the left. This time, go up the staircase to the right. At the top, go straight,
and into the opening to the left. Kill any Shotgun Guys/Imps/Heavy Weapon Dudes
you might see. In this room, hit the switch. The lift to the right of you will
lower. Take it. Ride it to the top.

When the lift gets to the top, kill the Arachnotron you might see (skill level
varies), and pick up the Plasma Gun across from you. An opening to the left of
you will open. Go in it, and kill the Imp. Walk up to the Health Potions here,
and you'll here another door open. Leave this little room, and back out here,
go through the new opening to the left.

In here, kill the Shotgun Guy, and walk up to the Armor Bonuses. You'll hear
another door open. Leave this hall, and go back into the same opening to the
right. Now, in this same hall, follow it to another Imp. Kill it, and walk up
to the Energy Cell. You'll hear another door open. Leave this hall.

Back out here, go in the same opening to the left. Now follow it to a Shotgun
Guy. Kill it. When it's dead, walk up to the Energy Cell Pack, and you'll hear
ANOTHER door open. Leave this hall. Back out here, turn right. You'll see a new
opening this time. Go in it. In here, kill the enemy in front of you, and
follow the hall to the Health Potions. Walk up to them, and you'll hear another
door open. Leave this hall.

Back out here, go through the opening to the left. Follow it to another Shotgun
Guy. Kill it, and when it's dead, follow this hall to an Energy Cell. You'll
hear another door open. Leave this hall. Back out here, go through the opening
to the right. Follow it to a new room. Kill the Heavy Weapon Dudes in here, and
take the exit teleporter.

------------------------
Level 18: The Courtyard
------------------------

See the door in front of you? Take a Pistol, either Shotgun, or a Chaingun.
Shoot the door to open it (you can also use your Fist or Chainsaw to open it).
Out here, kill the Zombieman in front of you, and kill all the other Imps in
this room too. In here, collect all the Shotgun Ammo, and the Shotgun, and go
through the only opening in this room (into the courtyard). When you get into
the courtyard, *run* all the way straight to the staircase across from you
(don't climb it). Facing the staircase, go through the opening to the left of
it. Over here, collect the Yellow Key. Now go back and up the stairs (before
the Demons trap you), and up here, go all the way right, then left, and left
again to the Yellow Door. Open it.

In here, take the teleporter before the Cacodemons come and get you. When you
teleport into this room, kill the Cacodemons in front of you. Now drop down to
the floor below you. Down here are loads of Health Potions. The Blue Key is
scattered down here to. Pick it up. Also down here are a few pillars. One of
them has a switch. Hit it, and to the left of you a staircase has risen to a
teleporter. Take it.

You'll be teleported in the Yellow Door room. Now go right, down into the
floor below you, and *run* all the way straight to the opening across from you,
before you get caught in a huge enemy mess. Back in this same room, go right,
through the opening, and back into the starting room. In here, open the Blue
Door. Take the teleporter in this room.

----------------------
Level 19: The Citadel
----------------------

At the start, open the door in front of you. In here, kill the Shotgun Guys,
and hit the switch to the right (it is a door). In here, kill the Imps, and hit
the switch in this room. Now leave this room, and in here, open the door to the
right. Out here, go straight and open the door across from you.

In here, kill the Lost Souls, get the armor and ammo here, and from where you
entered this room, head up the staircase to the left. Up here, open the door to
your left. In here, go straight and hit the switch on the pedestal across from
you. When you hit the switch, a door across from you will open. Go through.

In here, walk up to the door across from you (touch it). When you touch it, you
should hear another door open. Turn around and leave this room (if the door
closes on you, turn around and open the door we walked up to, kill the Imps in
here, and hit the switch to the right, the door will open again). Back in here,
go through the new opening to the left (if this one shuts, walk up to the same
door again <_>).

Kill the Imps in this hall. Now follow this hallway to a wall. It will lower.
Kill the Imps and Spectres in front of you, and when they're dead, go through
the only other opening in here. Follow it to the Yellow Key. When you pick it
up, turn around, go straight, and drop down to the floor below you.

Down here again, hit the switch on the pedestal, and turn around (it opens up
another door too). Now go through the new opening. In this room, go through the
opening to the right, and open the door. In this room, walk up to the
Soulsphere. When you walk up to it, you will teleport (and you don't get the
Soulsphere :().

When you teleport, there will be an Imp cage to the left and right of you. Pull
out your Pistol, either Shotgun or a Chaingun and shoot the Imp cage to the
left of you (kill the Imps too, and do this with the other Imp cage). Once you
shoot the Imp cage to the left, a platform will rise to the door across from
you in this room (you can see it when you first teleport here).

Once the platform is finished rising to the door, cross the platform and open
the door. In here, follow this hallway to another room, killing any Cacodemons
in your way. Down here in this room, kill the Arachnotron, and grab the Red
Key. Once you have the key, drop down into the floor below you, and down here,
go all the way left and open the only door in this room.

Back in here, open the door to the right. In this same room, hit the switch on
the pedestal. Now, the two doors will open again. Go through the opening behind
you again. In here, go straight until you see an opening to the left (skip the
first one that's right next to you when you enter this room). Facing the
opening, check the walls to the left of it until a hidden door opens.

When you find the hidden door, go in the room, and pick up the Armor. When you
get the armor, check the wall in front of you. It should lower (it's a lift).
When it's done lowering, get on it. Now ride it to the top. Up here, follow
this hallway to an opening.

Before you go through it, get in center with it, back up, and then *run*
straight. Hopefully when you land, you should land on the ledge a little higher
than the floor you just ran over. If you land on the ledge, drop down into the
water not the floor. Down in the water, head up the stairs. Up here, there are
two openings. Take the one on the corner.

In here, follow this hallway to a bigger room, and watch out for the crushing
ceiling you'll pass. In this bigger room, head up the only staircase in this
room. At the top, hit the switch on the pedestal, then leave this room, going
back down the stairs. Down here again, go left, through the opening.

In this hall, go straight, and drop down to the floor below you. You can see 5
teleporters. One thing to note here is that the teleporter in the southwest
corner will not work if you are playing on skill levels 1 or 2. Take the one in
the northeast part of this room. When you teleport, go straight, and drop down
into the room below you. Down here, use a BFG or a Super Shotgun to kill all of
the Demons in this room. When all of the Demons are dead, go through the
opening to the left of the staircase in this room, and drop down to a lower
floor.

Down here, pick up the Blue Key. Once you pick it up, drop down to the floor
below you, and go all the way straight, and open the door over here. In here,
go straight, and open the door. Out here, go left, and follow this pathway to a
staircase leading to the building (you'll see it to the right of the staircase)
killing any Spectres in your way.

Once you get to the stairs leading to a building, cross the stairs to the
building. Over here, take either opening to the other side of this room. Over
here is an opening blocked by a Red Bar, a Yellow Bar, and a Blue Bar. Press
the Spacebar on each of them to remove them, go through the opening, and step
on the exit teleporter.

------------------
Level 20: Gotcha!
------------------

Kill the Shotgun Guy right in front of you, and open the door he was in front
of. In this room, kill the Shotgun Guys, Imps, and Heavy Weapon Dudes. Then,
walk straight. Two wide and large pillars will lower. One contains the
Cyberdemon, and the other one has a Spider Mastermind. When you see both of
them, when you they try to attack you, try to make sure the Cyberdemon's
Rockets hits the Spider Mastermind, and vice versa.

When this happens, the Spider Mastermind and the Cyberdemon will start fighting
to the finish. The Cyberdemon is stronger, so he usually wins. Once the two are
fighting, have a seat, relax, and watch the fight. Whoever wins the right, use
your Rocket Launcher or a BFG to finish off the remaining enemy.

When both of them are dead, drop down into the pit below you, and down here, go
up the only staircase in this pit. It will lead you to the pillars the
Cyberdemon and the Spider Mastermind were on. At the top, go straight, get on
the Spider Mastermind's pillar and hit the switch on the pedestal.

Once you hit the switch, drop down to the left, and lower the lift down here.
Get on it once it hits the ground. Now ride it to the top. Once you're at the
top, take either pathway to the other side of the room, and once you get to the
other end of the room, kill the Archvile and the Baron of Hell over here, and
go through the opening.

In this room, go straight, and then take either staircase. Both lead the same
way, and at the bottom of either staircase you take, go straight, and step on
the Demon Head symbol on the floor. It will teleport you. When you teleport,
go down the stairs in front of you. You'll see an opening across from you, and
you have to also cross the gap in front of you.

So, get in center with the opening, back up a little, and then *run* across the
gap to get through the opening. In here, kill the Pain Elemental in front of
you, and when it's gone (and the Lost Souls released from its explosion),
follow this hall to a wall. It will open, revealing a teleporter and a few
Weapon Dudes. Kill them, collect their Chainguns, and take the teleporter.

Once you teleport, the floor you're on will lower. When it hits the ground,
kill the Shotgun Guys and Heavy Weapon Dudes in front of you. Now walk forward
to the opening, go through, and collect the Medikit. Now don't jump off the gap
yet. Now the wall in front of you will lower. Now don't jump off until the wall
completely lowers (you'll hear a "cling" sound).

Once the wall completely lowers, jump down, and go through the small opening
in front of you. In here, follow this hall to a stairway. Go up the stairs and
kill the Imps in front of you. At the top, pick up the Plasma Gun. Now, the
wall will open behind you with a few Cacodemons and Pain Elementals. To avoid
trouble, drop down to the floor to the right (instead of using the stairs), go
straight into the hall we used to get to this room.

Now in this hall, go through the new opening to the left. In here, take the
teleporter. When you teleport, kill the Imps, Cacodemons, Pain Elementals, and
the Lost souls in here (use a BFG, it can do the job;)). When they're dead, go
up the staircase, get across the zig-zag floor, and go through the exit
teleporter, avoiding the Revenants.

Now before you go to the next level, you get a little story:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
YOU ARE AT THE CORRUPT HEART OF THE CITY,
SURROUNDED BY THE CORPSES OF YOUR ENEMIES.
YOU SEE NO WAY TO DESTROY THE CREATURES'
ENTRYWAY THROUGH THIS SIDE, SO YOU CLENCH YOUR
TEETH AND PLUNGE THROUGH IT.

THERE MUST BE A WAY TO CLOSE IT ON THE
OTHER SIDE. WHAT DO YOU CARE IF YOU'VE
GOT TO GO THROUGH HELL TO GET TO IT?
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------
Level 21: Nirvana
------------------

Pick up the Super Shotgun and the Health around you, and kill the Imps in here.
When they're dead, look around the room. You'll see two teleporters on
platforms. Standing on the floor you started out on, *run* to the teleporter
next to the platform with a human hanging above it.

When you teleport, follow this hall to an opening. Out here, take either path
to a teleporter at the other end of the room, and kill those Shotgun Guys too.
When you get to the teleporter, go through it, and ignore the wall that opens
(enemies are inside), for when you walk up to it.

When you teleport, look right. You'll see a pedestal with 4 switches on it (2
are on another side). Hit all 4 of them, and then you'll see parts of the wall
rise in front of you. Walk up to the wall that raised, and press the Spacebar
to lower it. When it gets to the ground, get on it, and it will rise to the top
again.

Up here, go straight until you get to two teleporters. Take the one on the
right, and ignore the Imps and the Mancubi. When you teleport, walk up to
the wall in front of you, and press the Spacebar. The wall will lower, and when
it lowers, kill all of the Imps around you. Once you have killed all of the
Imps, walk up to any part of the floor surrounding you, and it will lower (or
if you already did so).

Once the wall is finished lowering, kill the Pain Elementals around you, and
once they and their Lost Souls are all gone, check around this room. At one of
the corners is the Yellow Key. Pick it up. Now another one of the corners of
this room has a teleporter. Go through it.

You'll be teleported on the teleporter you used to get to the Yellow Key room.
Back here, go all the way right, jump off the floor you're on down into the
lower floor, and down here, take the teleporter. Back in this room, avoid the
new appearing Revenants, and go through the opening in the center of this room.
Back in this hall, go through the teleporter.

You'll be back in the starting room. In here, collect the Health you may need,
get on the floor the health is on (or where you started the level on), and
*run* to the other teleporter you didn't take yet. In this room, remove the
Yellow Bar to your right.

Once you remove it, follow this pathway to a wall. Once you hit the wall, turn
left and kill all of the Imps on the platform to you left. When they're dead,
turn around, pull out a Rocket Launcher, Plasma Gun, or a BFG, and kill all of
the Heavy Weapon Dudes on the other platform.

When all of the Heavy Weapon Dudes are dead, get center with the platform the
Imps were on, and then *run* to get on the platform. On this platform, hit the
switch, turn left, and *run* to the lowered platform the Heavy Weapon Dudes
were on. Now get on the platform, and collect the Red Key.

Once you got the Red Key, jump off the platform to the left (if your back is
at the edge of this platform), and go through the small opening here, and *run*
too, because this floor is toxic. Now follow this small hall to another part of
the room.

At this half of the room, go left, and lower the platform the Imps are on. Kill
the Imps on this platform, and get on it while it's at the ground. When the
platform rises back to the top, get in center with the pathway right in front
of you, and *run* across this gap to get on it.

Back on this pathway, go left and you'll come up to 2 Blue Bars. You'll also
notice an opening you can just fit through in between the Bars. So go through
the opening and you'll get to the Red Bars. Remove either one of the 2 Bars,
and go through the teleporter you can now access.

In this room, walk straight to the exit teleporter.

------------------------
Level 22: The Catacombs
------------------------

From where you are, check the walls to your left and a hidden door should open.
Kill the Spectre in front of you, and collect the Soulsphere, Armor, and Ammo
in here. Now leave this room. In here, go straight and lower the lift in front
of you. When it gets down to the bottom kill the Demon, get on it, and ride it
to the top. Once it gets to the top, kill the Heavy Weapon Dudes on the
platform in front of you (and the Spectres below if you need to). When the
Heavy Weapon Dudes are gone, get in center with the platform they are on, and
*run* across the gap to get to the platform.

On this platform, with your back facing the lift you took to get here, go left,
jump in the gap below you, and down here, lower the lift right next to
you. Get on it, and ride it to the top. Up here, kill the Spectres and Imps in
front of you, and when they're all gone, drop down in the pit below you. Down
here, go up the stairs, and up here, follow this hall until you see an opening
to your right, and kill any Imps and Heavy Weapon Dudes in your way.

Once you see the opening to the right, go through it, and turn left. In here,
go straight until you see a door to your left. Open it. In here, kill the Imp
in front of you, and take the teleporter. When you teleport, kill the Revenant
in front of you, and pick up the Blue Key in front of you. Once you have it,
walk onto the ledge the Blue Key was in front of (it leads to the platform). On
this ledge, get in center with the platform in front of you, and *run* straight
to get onto it.

On this platform (again), with your back facing the ledge we just used to get
here, go right and drop down into the pit below you. Down here, lower the lift
next to you (it does drop down to a lower ground). Now, drop down along with
the lift and down here, kill the Demons in front of you. Also down here, open
the Blue Door, and hit the switch in front of you. Now exit this room.

Back out here, facing the Blue Door, go right, and go through the opening in
front of you. Follow it to an opening to your left. Go through the opening, and
drop down to the ground below you. Down here, kill the Imps, and hit the switch
down here. When you hit the switch, a door to your right has opening. When it
opens, kill the Baron of Hell in front of you, and go into the room he came out
of.

In here, hit the switch to your left, and leave this room (if the door shuts on
you hit the other switch to open). Back out here, *run* straight to the
lowered platform, and get on it. Ride it to the top. Up here, go through the
opening, and in here, get the Red Key. Also in here, press the Spacebar on that
Demon head on that wall, and it will open. Take the teleporter in front of you.

In this room, pick up the Plasma Gun in front of you, and take the only
teleporter in this room. When you teleport, go straight, into the gap in front
of you, and lower the lift near you too. Get on it, and ride it to the top. Up
here, kill the Revenant, and open the Red Door in this room. In here, kill the
Heavy Weapon Dudes in front of you, and open the Exit Door in this room. In
here, kill the Heavy Weapon Dudes in front of you, go straight, and hit the
exit switch.

-------------------------
Level 23: Barrels O' Fun
-------------------------

The level name describes it all. Without moving when you enter this level, blow
up at least one of the barrels surrounding you (blow up one that's not right
next to you to lower your chance of being killed). It will blow up, and all of
the other barrels will blow up too. When all of the barrels are gone, get to
the other end of the room and open the door. In here, go through the
teleporter.

In this room, go all the way straight to the other end of the room, without
blowing up any Barrels or trying to kill any Hell Knights or Heavy Weapon
Dudes. At the other end of the room, take the teleporter. In this room, walk
all the way straight to the other end of the room, destroying any barrels or
killing any Pain Elementals in your way. When you get to the other end of the
room, hit the switch in front of you.

When you hit the switch, go right, and drop down to the floor below you. Down
here again, go all the way right (to the door we opened at the start). You'll
see that a lift has appeared in front of the door. Lower the lift, and get on
it. Ride it to the top. At the top, turn left, and *run* to get to the new
platform. When you get on this platform, go all the way left to the other end
of the room, killing any Imps, Pain Elementals, Lost Souls, or Demons in your
way. When you get to this end of the room, go through the opening. In here,
*run* straight through this hall way, and if you were running, you'll make it
to another platform. On this platform, turn right. You'll see a huge opening.
Now *run* across the gap to try and get to it, but instead, it will teleport
you to the opening.

Over here, go through the opening to your left. Follow this hall to an opening
to the right. Before you go in it, kill all the Imps in the opening. When the
Imps are gone, go in the opening, and hit the only switch in here (it's a
door). When the door opens, go through, and collect the Soulsphere. Now exit
this small room, and leave this room too.

Back out here, go right, and through the opening. Back in this room, a new
opening has revealed, containing a Spider Mastermind (on hard skill levels),
and a few Arachnotrons. Kill each of the Arachnotrons, and the Mastermind (have
the Arachnotrons kill it). When they're all dead, go through the opening they
came from, pick up the Yellow Key, and go through the teleporter.

When you teleport to this room, turn around, and follow this hallway to two
teleporters, killing any Revenants, Demons, or Arachnotrons in your way. When
you get to the two teleporters. Take the one on the left. When you teleport, go
all the way straight and open the door. In here, open the Yellow Door to your
left. Follow this hall to a barrel, and destroy it. Now follow this hall to the
exit teleporter. Take it.

--------------------
Level 24: The Chasm
--------------------

This level is really annoying on any skill level, so save at all times, because
this level has very thin platforms, and you can easily fall to the slime below
you. Anyways, when you start this level, cross the pathway in front of you
carefully, and open the door at the end of the pathway. In this room, kill any
Imps you find, and look around this room for the Blue Key. When you have the
Blue Key, leave this room.

Back out here, cross the pathway in front of you back to the level's starting
point. When you get to the end of the pathway, go right, and follow this
pathway to the Blue Door. Open it, and save your game. In this room, walk
across the very thin pathway in front of you slowly before you fall down. Go
straight until you see a pathway to your right. Take it. Follow this pathway
until you can access a pathway to your right (remember to cross these pathways
slowly). When you get to the pathway to your right, cross it and when you get
to the end of this pathway, turn left, and then right to a bigger platform.
Step on it (it's a teleport).

In this room, save your game. Also, the pathways are a bit bigger in this room.
When you get here, cross the pathway in front of you until you see a pathway to
your right and left, killing any Lost Souls in your way. When you get to these
two pathways, take the one on the left. Follow this pathway to two teleporters.
Collect the health and ammo here, and take the silver teleporter.

In this room, kill the Demons in front of you. From where you were when you
entered this room, go right, and hit the switch over here. When you hit it,
turn around, and *run* all the way straight to the other end of the room, and
get on the lowered platform over here. Also, kill the Demons over here too.
When the platform rises to the top, hit the switch up here, turn around, jump
off this platform, and go left to a new lowered platform. Kill the Demons over
here, and when the platform rises to the top, hit the switch up here. The wall
in front of you will lower, containing the Red Key.

When you have the Red Key, turn around, jump off this platform, and get to the
other end of the room. Over here, hit the switch, and the wall in front of you
will lower. Kill the Demons over here, and take the teleporter. Back in this
room, get back on the pathway in front of you. On this pathway, follow it to
the Red Door in this room. When you get to the Red Door, open it. You'll see
another door. Open this one too. In this room, open the exit door, and go
through the exit teleporter.

---------------------
Level 25: Bloodfalls
---------------------

You better have a good amount of health when you start this level, or you won't
make it. Anyway, go in the opening across from you. You'll drop down to a lower
floor, and there's blood where you're standing (and you get hurt when you stand
in it). Down here, kill the Shotgun Guys in front of you, and go straight,
through the opening. In this non-toxic room, go straight, and lower the lift
across from you. When it lowers, you'll see a new opening. Go in it. In here,
follow the left wall to a room with a teleporter, killing any Imps, Hell
Knights, or Shotgun Guys in your way. When you get to the teleporter, go
through it.

In this room, kill the Lost Souls in front of you, and also get the Blue Key in
front of you. When you have the Blue Key, drop down to the floor to your right.
Down here, kill the Shotgun Guys and the Pain Elemental, and go up the stairs.
At the top, go right, and walk up to the door. It will open. In here, go
straight to the other end of the room, and take the teleporter. You'll be
warped back to the level's starting point. Again, go through the opening in
front of you, and down here, go through the opening across from you again.

In this familiar room, lower the lift again. When it lowers, get on it. This
time, ride it to the top. When it gets to the top, go all the way right to the
Blue Door, killing any Shotgun Guys or Heavy Weapon Dudes in your way. When
you get to the Blue Door, open it. In here, kill the Zombiemen, Shotgun Guys,
and Imps in front of you. When all of the enemies are gone, go through the only
opening in this room, and lower the lift. Once the lift is on the ground, get
on it. Ride it to the top.

Up here, kill the Hell Knight in front of you, and go straight. In this room,
go through the only opening in here, and head down the stairs. Down here, walk
on the lift in front of you, and it will lower to a lower ground. Down here,
get to the lift across from you while it's lowered. Ride it to the top. Up
here, kill the Imps, Heavy Weapon Dudes to your left, and the Archvile. When
they're all gone, check the pillars in this room. One of them has a switch. Hit
it, and another pillar in front of you will lower, revealing the exit
teleporter. Take it.

------------------------------
Level 26: The Abandoned Mines
------------------------------

Collect the health and armor in here (and the Super Shotgun), and hit the only
switch in this room. The floor you're on will lower. Down here, go all the way
straight, killing any Heavy Weapon Dudes in your way. When you get to the other
end of the room, turn left, up the stairs. Up here, go straight to the other
end of the room, and hit the switch over here. When you hit it, a Cacodemon
behind you will appear. Kill it, and when it's dead, go back down the stairs,
through the new opening to the left.

In here, follow this pathway to the Red Key, killing any Imps in your way (if
you can't see the Key you'll pick it up eventually). When you have the key, go
back to the opening you used to enter this room. It should've closed. Hit the
switch near here and it will open again. Now exit this room. Back out here, go
straight and you'll see an opening to your right. Take it, and go straight to
the other end of the room. Over here, open the Red Door.

In this room, get to the Medikit across from you. When you get to it, the floor
in front of you will raise, revealing the Blue Key and a Baron. Kill the Baron,
get the Blue Key, turn around, go straight, and exit this room. Back in this
room again, go all the way straight to an opening, killing any Imps or
Cacodemons in front of you. When you get to the opening, go through it, and
follow this pathway to the Blue Door, killing any Imps or Cacodemons in your
way. When you get to the Blue Door, collect the ammo near it, and open the Blue
Door.

In this room, take either pathway to the other side of the room, killing any
Lost Souls, Barons, or Cacodemons in your way. When you get to the other end of
the room, take the pathway leading to the center of the room, and follow it to
a platform. Kill the Mancubus in front of you, and grab the Rocket Launcher
Ammo and get the Yellow Key. Now exit this room.

Back in this room, follow the same pathway to an opening, killing any
Cacodemons in your way. When you get to the opening, enter it. In here, go
straight until you see an opening. Go through it. In here, go straight until
you see an opening to your right, killing any Cacodemon in your way. Once you
see the opening to your right, go through it, and then take the staircase to
your left. At the top, go straight, and then right, into the opening. In here,
remove the Yellow Bar, and open the exit door. In here, go through the exit
teleporter.

------------------------
Level 27: Monster Condo
------------------------

At the start, walk up to the pit in front of you. When you get to the pit, go
right, towards to door in front of you. When you get to the door, open it. In
this room, walk up to the Rocket in front of you. The wall in front of you will
lower, and the door will shut behind you. When the wall lowers to the floor,
kill the Zombiemen, Shotgun Guys, Heavy Weapon Dudes, Imps, and Demons in front
of you.

When all of the enemies are gone, get your back on the door you used to enter
this room (it currently won't open). With your back on the door, get to the
other end of the room. When you get to the other end of the room, turn right to
the wall. On this wall is a switch. Hit it. The wall in front of you will open,
revealing a few Hell Knights and an Archvile. Kill all of them, and go into the
room they came out of.

In this room, grab the Plasma Gun, Invincibility Sphere, and the Yellow Key.
When you have the Yellow Key, hit both switches in this room. One of the
switches will cause the wall behind you to open, revealing ammo, a Hell Knight,
and another switch (still hit the other switch too). Kill the Hell Knight. When
it's gone, go into the small room it came out of, and hit the switch in here.
The wall behind you will open. Get back out here, and exit this room back into
the level's starting room.

Back out here, turn right, facing the pit. You should see a spiral staircase in
the pit leading to a platform with a Rocket Launcher. Go up the stairs, and at
the top, get the Rocket Launcher. When you get the Rocket Launcher, turn
around. You'll see another part of the room alone in front of you next to the
pit. From where you are, *run* straight to get across this pit onto that part
of the room.

Over here, open the only door over here. In this room, go straight. As you go
straight, you should see a switch on the wall to your left. Hit it. The floor
you're on will lower. Down here, kill the Imps and Demons, and open the door.
In this room, collect the health and ammo, and open the Yellow Door.

In here, take either staircase to the left or right to the Blue Key. When you
get the Blue Key, take out your Chainsaw, Pistol, either Shotgun, or the
Chaingun, and shoot the Demon Head on the wall the Blue Key was in front of.
When you do, the wall in front of you will open. When it opens, kill the
Revenants in front of you. When they're all gone, hit the switch in the room
they came out of, and collect the ammo.

When you hit the switch, the Yellow Door behind you will open again. Get to the
door and go through it before it closes again, and DO NOT step on the tile in
the middle of the room. Back out here, hit the switch to the right of you. Once
you hit the switch, stairs to the left of you will rise to a higher platform.
Go up the stairs, and at the top, kill the Hell Knight in front of you. When
it's dead, climb up the staircase up here, and press the Spacebar on the face
tile on the wall. It will open.

Back in this familiar room, kill any new Revenants that might've appeared. If
not, from where you just entered this room, go straight, to the other end of
the room. Over here you'll see a Blue Door on the wall to the left. Open it.
Hit the switch in front of you. A wall behind you will lower, revealing Hell
Knights and a Baron of Hell. Kill all of them, and on the wall that lowered,
collect the Soulsphere and the Red Key.

When you have the Red Key, turn around and face the Blue Door. Also on this
wall to the left of the Blue Door is another door. Open it. In here, there are
two switches across from you at the other end of the room. Hit the one on the
left. Once you hit it, the wall you're on will lower. Down here, kill the Lost
Souls and the Hell Knight in front of you. When they're all dead, collect the 3
Backpacks, and go through the opening to the left. In here, kill the Archvile
in front of you, go straight, and open the Red Door. In here, go through the
exit teleporter.

---------------------------
Level 28: The Spirit World
---------------------------

From your starting point, go in the opening across from you. In here, follow
this hall to another opening, and before you get to it, you'll see Imps,
Demons, and Pain Elementals. Kill all of what you see. When the enemies are
gone, go through the opening and drop down.

Down here, you'll see a small lava river in front of you. Get to the left of
it, and when you do, follow this lava river to a small opening (staying on the
left, and the opening has a red wall behind in). Get in the small opening, and
drop down to the floor below you.

Down here, equip your BFG, and follow this hall to an opening. Go through the
opening, and in this room, go right, and drop down to the floor below you. If
you are playing on high skill levels, you'll see a Spider Mastermind in front
of you. Use your BFG to kill it too. When the Mastermind is gone, go straight
until you see an opening to the right. Go through it, and head up the stairs.

In this room, go right, and get to the other end of the room. Over here you'll
see the weird looking "chair" in front of a wall that has a Demon Head on it.
"Sit" on the chair (get on it). When you hop on the "Chair", turn around. The
platform in the middle of the room has lowered. Get on it, and it will raise
again.

Once it raises as high as it can go, face the "chair" and turn left. You'll see
a wall of skull heads right next to you. You'll notice one of them has Red
Eyes. Walk up to it and press the Spacebar. When you do, drop down to the floor
on your right. Down here again, go straight and you'll see an opening to your
right. Go through it and pick up the Yellow Key.

Once you have the Yellow Key, turn around, and go left, to the other end of the
room. Over here, go through the opening and head down the stairs. Down here,
kill any Arachnotrons or Spider Masterminds in front of you with your BFG (you
can use the Invincibility Spheres down here too if you need too), and once all
of the enemies down here are dead, open the Yellow Door in this room.

In here, go up the stairs. At the top is this funky colored wall. Press the
Spacebar on it, and it will open. When it opens, kill any Hell Knights or
Revenants in front of you. Then go straight until you see an opening to your
left. Go through it. In here, go right. Over here, you'll see white walls to
the left, and you'll also see lava in between the white walls too.

Walk up to the lava, and press the Spacebar (it's a lift, and it will lower).
When it lowers, get on the lava, and when it rises again, go all the way
straight to the platform across from you that has Green Torches up top (it's
too high to get on, but now there is a new lift to your right that you can use
it to get on it).

When you get to the wall/platform, go right and lower the lift (it has skull
heads on it too). When it lowers, get on it, and when it rises to the top
again, follow this hall back to the level's starting room. In this room, open
the Yellow Door. Once the door is open, pick up the Red Key in front of you.

Once you got the Red Key, turn around and go through the opening in front of
you before you get caught in a major Revenant jam. In this hall again, follow
it to the same opening, and drop down to the floor below you again. Down here,
follow the right wall to a small opening. You'll know it's the right opening if
Demons are coming out of the wall.

When you're in the right opening, kill the Demons that come out of the wall.
When the Demons are dead, walk through the wall they came out of (you can walk
through this wall), and in this room, kill the Demons and Spectres in front of
you, and grab the health and ammo in here. When the Demons and Spectres are
gone, go through the opening in this room. In here, look right, facing the
wall.

One of the walls in front of you has a big circle on hit. Shoot it with your
Fist, Chainsaw, Pistol, either Shotgun, or your Chaingun. Once you hit that
part of the wall, turn left, and a door will open. Go through the new opening.
In here, open the Red Door (it's a switch) before any Revenants or Archviles
get you. Once you open the Red Door, go straight, and go through the exit
teleporter.

-------------------------
Level 29: The Living End
-------------------------

From your starting point, go straight and get the Medikit and Chaingun across
from you. Once you step on the floor they're on, it will lower. Down here, kill
the Imps/Shotgun Guys/Heavy Weapon Dudes/Spectres. When they're all gone, take
their weapons, and get the Medikit here. Then, hit the only switch down here.
Once you hit it, turn right. You should see a pathway rising.

Once the pathway fully rises, kill the Shotgun Guy on it, and get the Armor on
it too. Then, take this pathway to another room. In here, kill all of the Imps
in front of you. When all of the Imps are dead, switch to your Automap. See the
north part of this room on it? When you do, switch back to first person mode,
and get to the north part of this room. When you do, walk up to the Box of
Shotgun Shells, and when you do, turn around. Part of the building in front of
you has opened, revealing a switch. Go straight and hit it.

When you hit the switch, turn around. Now kill the Pain Elementals and
Cacodemons in front of you (use Rocket Launcher, Plasma Gun, or BFG). When all
of the enemies are gone, go into the room they came out of. In here, turn
right, and get on the pathway. Follow this pathway to a teleporter, killing any
Heavy Weapon Dudes or Imps in your way. When you get to the teleporter, take
it.

Once you teleport, collect the health and armor around you, and climb up the
staircase (watch out, it is a little bit curved). At the top, follow this
hallway to a pedestal, killing any Imps or Revenants in your way. When you get
to the pedestal, walk up to it, and turn around. Part of the wall in front of
you should've opened. Go into the new opening across from you.

In here, get to the other end of the room. Over here, kill the Hell Knights,
and hit the switch. Now turn around and exit this room. Back out here, turn
left. You'll see that the pedestal has been removed. Now, get to where it was,
and when you do, back up a little bit, and then *run* straight to get to the
platform across from you. On this platform, kill the Hell Knight, and pick up
the Soulsphere.

Also on this platform, hit the switch. When you do, parts of the walls around
you will open, revealing Cacodemons. Kill all of them. When all of the
Cacodemons are gone, wait for the pathway to raise up to this platform (the
pathway is going to be to the left of the switch you hit).

Once the pathway raises up here, take it. It will lead you to three openings.
Take the one in the middle first. In here, drop down to the pit in front of
you, and go straight to the switch. Hit it. When you do, a pathway behind you
will rise. Get to the pathway, and press the spacebar to lower it. Now get on
it (kill the Cacodemon if you need to). Ride it to the top.

With the new pathway created, take it to the new opening. Now pick up the Super
Shotgun, and kill the Cacodemons and Pain Elementals in front of you. When the
enemies are gone, drop down to the pit below you, and go through the opening to
your left. In here, hit the switch. Once you hit the switch, a new pathway
behind you will raise. Walk up to it, and press the spacebar on it to lower it.

Before you get on the new pathway, go straight and get to the opening across
from you. In here, hit the switch. Now turn back around and lower the pathway
again. Ride it to the top, and when it raises again, follow it to a new
opening. In here, follow this pathway to another room.

In this room, kill the Mancubus. Now hit the switch in here. Once you hit the
switch, leave this room (keep following the pathways to the pathway that leads
to three openings). Back out here, go right, then right again, through this
opening. In here, kill the Shotgun Guys and Imps in front of you. Down here,
hit the only switch in this room.

When you do, turn around. You should see the floor raise (it's a lift too).
Walk up to the raised floor, and press the spacebar to lower it. When it gets
down to the ground, get on it, then ride it to the top. Up here, kill the
Archvile in front of you, and go into the room it came out of.

In this room, hit the only switch in here. Now leave this room. Back in here,
follow this pathway to an opening. Go through it. In here, follow this hall to
an opening to your left. Go through it, and go straight, crossing the new
pathway. At the end of the pathway, go into the room in front of you, and hit
the switch.

When you hit the switch, turn around, and get on the pathway. Now drop down to
the left, and leave this room. Back out here, go all the way left, then left
again, into the only opening we haven't gone through yet. In here, go straight,
and open the door. In here, walk up to the wall in the center of the room. On
the left part of the wall, there are scratches.

Walk up to the scratches, and press the Spacebar. The wall will open, and in
this room, grab the health and ammo, and go through the teleporter. In this
room, kill the Revenants, Shotgun Guys, and Zombiemen in front of you. When
they're all gone, walk up the stairs in front of you. At the top you should see
3 pathways. Get in center with the one in the middle, back up, and *run*
straight to get to the pathway.

Once you're on the pathway, follow it to another platform, killing any Shotgun
Guys in your way. When you can see the platform, kill the Revenant on it, and
when it's gone, get on the platform it's on, and hit the switch. Now get back
on the pathway, and on the end of it, drop down in the pit to the right. Down
here, go straight, and when you get to the lift at the end of the room (it's to
the left), lower it and get on it. Ride it to the top.

Up here again, turn around, facing the three pathways. Now back up, and *run*
to get the one on the left. Follow it to a platform with a Pain Elemental on
it, killing any Shotgun Guys in your way. When you get to the platform, kill
the Pain Elemental on it, then get on the platform it was on. Hit the switch on
it. Now turn around, get on the pathway, and get to the end of it.

When you do, drop down to the right, get to the lift, and lower it. Ride it to
the top. Up here again, face the three pathways again, and this time, get on
the one to the right (like the other two, run to get on it). Once you get on
this pathway, turn right. You'll see an opening. Back up, and *run* through the
opening to get to the platform across from you.

On this platform, kill the Mancubus. When it's dead, hit the switch on this
platform, lower the lift to your right. Get on it, and ride it to the top. At
the top, turn right. Once you turn right, *run* straight to get across the gap,
and to get back in the room across from you. In here, turn right, and take the
pathway to the right again. Follow this pathway to another pathway (they aren't
connected). When you see the new pathway, get in center with it, and *run*
across the gap to get on the pathway. On this one, kill the Barons of Hell in
front of you, and when they're gone, get on the pathway they were on, and take
the teleporter.

When you teleport, head up the stairs in front of you. Follow them to a higher
platform. At the top, get to the other end of the room, and go through the exit
teleporter (do not fall in the pit in the middle, it contains a Cyberdemon, and
this pit will raise to the top, so hurry up and exit this level).

----------------------
Level 30: Icon of Sin
----------------------

Congratulations, you have made it to the final level of Doom II! Anyways, when
you start this level, you start standing on a Backpack. Collect all of the
weapons in this room, all of the ammo, and the Megasphere. Now go through the
teleporter in this room. When you teleport, the final boss of the game is
across from you (it's a large demon head on the wall).

The final boss also shoots out skull headed boxes from its brain, containing
an enemy (it won't be a Zombieman, Shotgun Guy, Heavy Weapon Dude, Lost Soul,
Spider Mastermind, or Cyberdemon).

Also, go left, and then at the end of this platform, go left again. You should
see a Demon Head figure on the wall. Press the spacebar on it, and the platform
will lower. On this platform, go all the way straight, and you should see
another Demon Head figure on the wall. Press the spacebar on this figure and
the platform will lower. On this platform, wait for it to raise to the top. At
the top, go through the only opening up here. In this opening, hit the switch.

Now turn around. You should see a pillar rising. Wait for it to get as high as
it can go, and try to kill any enemies distracting you. Once the pillar gets as
high as it goes, go all the way straight, to the pillar, and press the Spacebar
to lower it. When it gets to the ground, get on it, and equip your Rocket
Launcher (it's the only weapon that can defeat the final boss). Now, facing the
final boss, wait for the pillar to raise again.

See the final boss's brain? As the pillar is raising, time your Rockets just
right so it can get through the brain (you'll hear a loud scream). Weather you
get it through or miss, get to the ground, lower the pillar again, and keep
firing your Rockets into his brain. Repeat this twice more to win (3 hits in
total).

Once you defeat the final boss, congratulations! You also get a story too:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE HORRENDOUS VISAGE OF THE BIGGEST
DEMON YOU'VE EVER SEEN CRUMBLES BEFORE YOU,
AFTER YOU PUMP YOUR ROCKETS INTO
HIS EXPOSED BRAIN. THE MONSTER SHRIVELS
UP AND DIES, ITS THRASHING LIMBS
DEVASTATING UNTOLD MILES OF HELL'S
SURFACE.

YOU'VE DONE IT. THE INVASION IS OVER.
EARTH IS SAVED. HELL IS A WRECK. YOU
WONDER WHERE BAD FOLKS WILL GO WHEN THEY
DIE, NOW. WIPING THE SWEAT FROM YOUR
FOREHEAD YOU BEGIN THE LONG TREK BACK
HOME. REBUILDING EARTH OUGHT TO BE A
LOT MORE FUN THAN RUINING IT WAS.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The next screen shows the cast of enemies. Press the spacebar (or any other
key) to get to the next enemy, and then simply press Escape whenever you want
to return to the main menu.

Woo-Hoo! I'm finally finished with this Walkthrough! ^_^

===========
8. Secrets
===========

Ever needed help finding a secret in any of the levels from Doom II? If so,
this is the section to look at. I will cover each secret from each level in
this section and how to get to them.

------------------
Level 1: Entryway
------------------

Number of Secrets: 5

1. For the first level, most of the secrets here are worth it. Start this level
by going through the opening in front of you. In here, open the door to your
left and go through it. In here, you'll see a platform on the left and right.
Both of them have a switch on them. Hit the switch on the right platform and a
wall across from you will open, so go through it. In this secret area are two
Stimpacks and a Green Armor.

2. Now, leave this room. Back in this hall, go through the opening across from
you. In here, go through the opening at the other end of this room. In this big
room, lower the lift to your right, get on it, and ride it to the top. Up here,
open the hidden door in front of you and go through it. In this secret area,
there is a switch. It'll be a part of your next secret.

3. From secret 2, hit the switch. Now turn around and drop back down to the
floor below you. Down here, get to the exit door and then turn around. You'll
see a new opening, so go through it. Out here, kill all the Imps and get the
Shotgun and Shotgun Shells in this secret area.

4. Now, go back to the lift that takes you to secret 2. Get on it and ride it
to the top. Up here, face the switch and then turn around. You'll see a small,
square platform on the floor. Back up and RUN off the lift to get onto this
platform. Once you step on the platform, step off of it and then go back into
the hall to your left. Back in here, turn right to the Health Potions and
you'll see an opening. Go through it and you'll be in a secret area with the
Rocket Launcher in it. Nice getting it this early.

5. From here, go to the exit door. Once you get to the exit door, face the Imp
cage to your right. Now, press the Spacebar on the walls to your right until
you find a hidden door (an Imp would come out and open it). Once you find it,
go through it. In this secret area is an Imp and a Stimpack.

--------------------
Level 2: Underhalls
--------------------

Number of Secrets: 1

1. Once you start this level, progress the game until you have the Red Key.
Once you have the Red Key, turn left and press the Spacebar on the walls until
you find a hidden door. Once you find it, open it and it will reveal a hidden
room, so go through it. In this secret area is a MegaArmor and a teleporter
leading back to the level's starting point.

---------------------
Level 3: The Gantlet
---------------------

Number of Secrets: 1

1. From the start of the level, open the door in front of you. Now in here,
head up the stairs to your right. At the top, lower the lift in front of you,
get on it, and ride it to the top. Up here, save your game. Now turn right and
you'll see a little "well" in the water pit. Being on this platform, face the
well and then hold SHIFT, ALT, UP and RIGHT on the keyboard and then run off
the ledge on the staircase. If you did it right, you'll land in the well. Down
in this secret area, there is a Soulsphere, Energy Cell Pack, a MegaArmor, and
an Invincibility Sphere.

-------------------
Level 4: The Focus
-------------------

Number of Secrets: 3

1. Once you start this level, open the door in front of you and go through it.
In this hallway, follow it to a door. Once you get to a door, turn left and
you'll see a blue symbol on the wall. This is a hidden door, so open it and go
through it. In this secret area, you can get Armor Bonuses, health, and you'll
be behind the window that opens and closes all the time.

2. From here, progress the game until you have the Blue Key. Once you have the
Blue Key, turn around and you'll see a brown pit, so step down to it. Down
here, look for a slightly different designed wall different from the others.
This is a hidden door, so open it and go through it and there will be a Super
Shotgun in this hidden area.

3. Now, progress the game until you have the Red Key. Once you are on the crate
that has the Red Key, drop down to the pit to your left. Down in this secret
area, there is a teleporter that takes you back to the level's starting area.
Nice shortcut if you ask me. Nothing else is in this area, but it's a secret.

---------------------------
Level 5: The Waste Tunnels
---------------------------

Number of Secrets: 3

1. Once you start this level, go through the opening in front of you. In here,
you'll see a row of windows on the wall in front of you. Get in front of the
window on the far left. If you look through it, you'll see a balcony. RUN
through this window to get onto the balcony. On here, go through the opening
next to you. In here, press the Spacebar on the wall to the left and it will
lower. Also, a lift across from you will lower, so RUN to it and drop down to
the floor below you. If you can't get to it, go back and try again. In this
secret area, there is a nice Plasma Gun for you.

2. From secret 1, lower the lift in here, get on it, and ride it to the top.
Back up here, walk up to the door to your left and it will lower. Down here,
open the door to your left and go through it. In this twisted hall, follow it
until you get to a Soulsphere. Once you get to it, pick it up and press
Spacebar on the wall in front of you, revealing a Berserk. Pick it up to get
credit for a secret.

3. Now, progress the game until you have the Blue Key. Once you have the Blue
Key, get to the Blue Door, and then open it and go through it. In here, walk up
to the Yellow Key and two windows next to the Yellow Door will open, revealing
a room inside. Hold ALT, SHIFT, and then RUN across the game into the window.
In this secret area there is a Box of Shotgun Shells, Box of Rockets, and an
Energy Cell Pack.

---------------------
Level 6: The Crusher
---------------------

Number of Secrets: 3

1. From the start of the level, walk forward. Count the pillars you see to your
LEFT. Skip the first one and then turn left to face the second pillar. This
pillar should have designs on it, so press the Spacebar on it and it will
lower, revealing a Megasphere. Pick this awesome item up to get credit for a
great and early secret.

2. Progress the game until you get to the room with the Blue Key. In this big
room, fall into the slime river. Down here, follow this river to an opening and
then go through it. In here, you'll get credit for a secret. The teleporter
takes you out of the river and back in front of the crusher.

3. Progress the level until you have the Blue Key. Once you have the Blue Key,
progress the level until you get to the room with the Red Key. In this room,
there is a staircase. Walk it up to the top. At the top of this staircase,
you'll see a window in front of you. Back up and RUN just right to get into the
window. In here, open the secret door and go through it. In this secret area is
a Rocket Launcher, MegaSphere, a Backpack, and a MegaArmor.

---------------------
Level 7: Dead Simple
---------------------

Number of Secrets: 1

1. What a cheap secret. First, kill all of the enemies to create stairs to the
exit switch. Step up the stairs to get credit for a secret. Well, that's what's
in short levels like these ones.

--------------------------
Level 8: Tricks and Traps
--------------------------

Number of Secrets: 7

1. This level has plenty of fun secrets in it. Start this level by opening the
door to the left of this one and go through it. In here, there should be a
switch on the wall at the other end of this room. Hit the switch and then leave
this room. Back in here, open the door you were facing at the start of the
level and then go through it. In here, walk up to the Rocket Launcher at the
other end of the room and then stairs behind you will rise to higher platforms.
Use the stairs to get to the switch to the right and then hit it. Now turn
around and you'll see an opening where the Rocket Launcher was, so go through
it. In here, walk forward towards the opening and you'll get credit for a
secret.

2. From secret 1, there will be a Soulsphere across from you. Walk up to it and
a wall to your right and left will open, revealing openings. Go right and
you'll see a demon face on the wall. Hit it with your Fist, Chainsaw, or shoot
this wall with a Pistol, either Shotgun, or a Chaingun, and it will open,
revealing a BFG. Get it to get credit for a secret. Nice getting this weapon
early.

3. From here, backtrack to the room with two switches. Hit the switch on the
left to open the door you used to get into this room. Now go through it and
you'll be back in the level's starting point. Back in here, open the door to
the right of this door and go through it. In here, shoot the switch in front of
you and it will open, revealing a teleporter, so step through it. In here, walk
forward to get credit for a secret.

4. In secret 3, you'll see a toxic river below you. Enter it and a wall to your
right will lower, so go through it. In this secret area, there is a teleporter
back to the higher platform, an Invisibility Sphere, 2 Radiation Suits, an
Energy Cell, and a Box of Rockets.

5. From secret 4, step through the teleporter and you'll be teleported right in
front of a pillar. Get to the left of it and you'll see a switch. Shoot this
switch and a door will open across from you. In it is an Energy Cell, a Rocket,
and 2 Boxes of Bullets. This is also easy credit for a secret.

6. Secret 6 is just like the secret 5. Go back to the same pillar and you'll
see another switch. Shoot this switch and a door across from you will open,
revealing a Chaingun. Collect the Chaingun to get credit for a secret.

7. From here, step through the teleporter in this room and you'll be taken in
front of a door. To open this door, turn around and drop back down to the pit
below you. Down here, hit the switch and then turn around. Walk up to the wall
and you'll be teleported. Viola. The door is open, so go through it and you'll
be back at the level's starting point. In here, open the door to the left of
the Red Door and then go through it. In here, walk up to the Chainsaw and the
wall will open, revealing Armor, a Box of Bullets, and a Box of Shells. Step
through for credit for a secret.

-----------------
Level 9: The Pit
-----------------

Number of Secrets: 6

1. From the start of the level, lower the lift in front of you, get on it, and
ride it to the top. Up here, get to the lift across from you. Now turn around
and you'll see a switch. Hit it, and then lower the lift behind you, get on it,
and ride it to the top. Up here, use the new walkway to get to that opening.
Out here, walk up to the pit in the center of the room and the outer walkway
will lower, so get on it. You will get credit for a secret once you step on it.

2. From secret 1, search for a door on this building. Once you find the door,
lower it and it will reveal an opening, so go through it. Once you step
through, you'll get credit for a secret. In here are Imps, Lost Souls, and
Energy Cells.

3. We're not done with secret 2 yet. While in this room, search for a wall with
yellow lights on the bottom of it. This is a hidden door, so open it and it
will reveal Lost Souls and a BFG. Grab this nice BFG to get credit for an easy
secret. Within 1 building, you're already halfway there.

4. From this building, progress the game until you have the Blue Key. Once you
have the Blue Key, stay on the lift and ride it to the top. Up here, RUN over
the gap and into an opening. In here, head up the stairs to the left. At the
top, open the door in front of you and go through it. Up here, head right until
you see a switch to your right. Walk up to it and it will open, revealing
another switch. Keep doing this until there are no more switches, and then
follow this hall to a Soulsphere. Once you get to it, pick it up. Now hit the
switch next to you. You'll see a pit with a Rocket Launcher on the pillar. RUN
onto the pillar to get credit for a secret.

5. Now, wait for a walkway below you to rise. Cross it to the next platform to
get credit for a secret. On this platform are 2 Rockets.

6. From secret 5, progress the game until you get to the Blue Door. Once you
get to the Blue Door, hit the switch to open the wall. Go through it and you'll
be in the room with the pedestal and 3 switches. Hit the switch on the left
side and a door will open, so go through it. In here, use all the lifts to your
left to get to an area with a Soulsphere, MegaArmor, and a Berserk.

-------------------------
Level 10: Refueling Base
-------------------------

Number of Secrets: 18

1. 18 secrets! Holy crap, well, here I go. Start the level by heading down the
stairs in front of you. Down here, go through the opening to your right. Out
here, use either walkway to your right or left to get onto a higher platform.
On here, notice all of the rectangular structures. Each of them is a secret. To
open up two of them for now, walk to the door at the other end of the room and
you'll hear the sounds of a door opening. Turn around and the two buildings in
front of you have opened. Walk through one of them to get a secret. Inside will
be Health Potions and a Stimpack.

2. The other building that was opened is right across from secret 1. Go through
this one while it's open to get credit for another secret. You'll find another
Stimpack and more Health Potions.

3. From these two buildings, face the door you walked up to open up secrets 1
and 2. Face it and turn around. You'll see an opening to your left, so step
through it and you'll hear another door open. Turn right and you'll see another
building open, so walk through it to get credit for a secret. In here will be
ammo and health and a nice secret.

4. Now, you also saw a building right next to the opening you walked into. To
open up that building, go through the opening to your right and you'll hear the
sound of a door opening. That is the building on the opposite end where the
opening was, so run to it and walk through it to get credit for a secret. In
here will be more health and ammo.

5, 6, and 7. From secret 4, go through the opening to your left. In here, go
through the opening to the right. In this room, turn left and you'll see a
triangle design on the wall. Walk up to it and a door in the slime pit will
open, so go through it. In here, follow this long hall to a room with a
MegaSphere. Each step to the Megasphere counts as a secret, so once you get to
the Megasphere, you'll have credit for 3 secrets.

8. From here, leave this long hallway. Back in here, go through the opening
across from you. In here, go through the opening to your left. Out here, go
through the opening across from you. In here, go through the opening in front
of you. In here, turn left and you'll see a door, so open it and go through it.
In here, turn right and you'll see two openings. Go through the one on the
left. In this hallway, walk all the way straight to the end of this room. In
here, turn left and you'll see two alcoves. On the one on the left, one of them
has a "UAC" symbol on the wall. Shoot the symbol and it will open, revealing a
Soulsphere. Pick it up to get credit for a secret.

9. From secret 8, get the Yellow Key in this room. Once you have the Yellow
Key, turn around and hit the switch in the alcove in front of you. A wall
behind you will open, revealing a hall with Armor Bonuses. Walk up to them to
get credit for a secret. This hall leads you to the Blue Key, but we'll come
back later.

10. From secret 9, go back into the room with the alcoves. Back in here, turn
left and you'll see an alcove across from you with the UAC symbol on it. Shoot
it and it will open, revealing another secret area. In here is a Berserk,
Rockets, and Armor Bonuses, and your own credit for a secret.

11. Now, secret 11 is just across secret 10. The alcove right in front of
secret 10 has a big UAC symbol in it. Shoot this secret door and it will open,
revealing an Energy Cell Pack. Collect it to get credit for a secret.

12. There are still more secrets in this area. Facing secret 11, turn left and
you'll see an alcove to your left. Go through it and you'll see another big UAC
symbol on the wall. Shoot this symbol and the door will open, revealing a
MegaArmor and a Light Amplification Visor. Walk up to them to get credit for a
secret.

13. From secret 12, go back to where the Yellow Key was. Across from that
alcove, there is another one with the big UAC symbol. Shoot that and it will
open, revealing a secret area. Step through to get credit for a secret. Also,
there are Health and Armor Bonuses plus a Backpack.

14. In secret 13, go to where the Backpack is. Open the hidden door in front of
you and then walk through. You'll be teleported. Up in this secret area, there
is a Box of Bullets and an Invincibility Sphere, even though there is an
Invincibility Sphere just below you. You'll get credit for a secret once you
are teleported.

15. From secret 14, drop down to the floor below you. Down here, go through the
opening across from you. In here, head down the stairs. Down here, open the
door in front of you and leave this room. Out in this big room, go through the
opening to your right and go through it. In here, follow the left hand wall to
a door. Once you get to a door, open it and go through it. In here, you'll see
a platform to your left with Boxes of Rockets. Lower it and step onto it to get
credit for a secret.

16. From secret 15, turn around and you'll see a Rocket Launcher on a pedestal.
Pick it up and then RUN onto the platform in front of you. You'll get credit
for a secret when you get on this platform. On here is an Armor and two
Medikits.

17. Now leave this room. Back out here, go all the way straight to the other
end of the room. Over here, you'll see two different sets of walls with black
spots on them. Both of these are hidden doors. Open the one on the left and it
will open, revealing a Berserk, Box of Rockets, and plenty of Armor Bonuses.
Step into this room to get credit for a secret.

18. Now go to the other wall with black spots on them. Open this door and it
will reveal a hallway to the Blue Key room. Use this hallway for a little
shortcut from here and to get credit for a secret.

--------------------------
Level 11: Circle of Death
--------------------------

Number of Secrets: 3

1. Once you start this level, turn right and follow this walkway until you see
an opening to your right. Once you see the opening, go through it. In here,
head up the stairs in front of you. At the top, walk forward and you'll hear
the sound of a lift dropping. It is at the bottom of the stairs to your right,
so get on it and ride it to the top. Up here, look for a different-designed
wall on the left. This is a hidden door, so open it and then drop down to the
floor below you. Down here, drop down to the walkway and get the Invisibility
Sphere.

2. From secret 1, progress the game until you get the Blue Key. Once you get
the Blue Key, face the pillar with the Red Key from its east side. Once you do
that, turn around and face the pit on the left side of the walkway. You'll see
a new opening in the pit to the left, so drop down to it and go through the
opening. In here, you'll get credit for a secret, but if you follow this
hallway you'll get to a teleporter and Boxes of Rockets. If you step through
the teleporter, you'll be taken onto the platform with Energy Cell Packs. Also,
the platform with the Red Key is across from you, so you can RUN onto it and
get the Red Key early. Nice shortcut.

3. Unless you took the shortcut to the Red Key, progress the game until you
have the Red Key. Once you have the Red Key, open the Red Door and go through
it. In here, you'll see an Invincibility Sphere behind a cage. To get this,
walk up to the bars to the right and they will open. Now press Spacebar on the
black and gray wall and it will open, so go through it. Now you will get credit
for a secret and you can get the Invincibility Sphere.

----------------------
Level 12: The Factory
----------------------

Number of Secrets: 4

1. Once you start this level, progress the game until you have both the Blue
and Yellow Key. Once you have both keys, go to the middle of the room where
you'll have a Soulsphere on a pillar. Ignore this for now. Instead, search for
two Blue Doors. Open the Blue Door on the southeast side and go through it. In
this room there is a huge lava pit and a switch at the other side of the room.
To get across this path, notice the tiles on the ceiling. Follow them to the
switch to make a long pathway so you won't be hurt from the lava. Once you get
to the switch, hit it. Now go back to the door. Back over here, hit the switch
next to this door to open it. Now leave this room. Back out here, go through
the new opening across from you. In this secret area, follow either hallway to
a BFG.

2. From secret 1, leave this room. Back out here, open the Blue Door on the
southwest side and go through it. In here, walk forward and the floor you're on
will lower. Down here, step on the teleporter. Once you are teleported, turn
around and you'll see a pit, so drop down it. Once you fall, you'll get credit
for a secret. On this platform are two Boxes of Bullets. Below you is a Berserk
and a hallway leading back to the two Blue Doors and everything else in this
room.

3. From secret 2, go back into the southwest Blue Door and step through the
teleporter again. Back out here, drop down to the floor below you. Down here,
turn around and follow this long pathway until you see a small door to your
left on a building. Once you see the door, open it and go through it. In here,
you should be in a room full of crates. You'll also notice one of the crates
has a switch on them. RUN across the crates to get to the switch. Once you get
to the switch, hit it and it will lower. Get on it and ride it back to the top.
Up here, get onto the platform with the Chaingun and you'll get credit for a
secret.

4. In this same area, you'll notice a teleporter in the corner of the room. Use
the stairs to get to the teleporter and then step onto it. Once you are
teleported, hit the switch next to you and the floor you're on will rise. Up
here, you'll notice you'll be on the pillar with the Soulsphere on it. Collect
the Soulsphere for credit for a secret.

-------------------
Level 13: Downtown
-------------------

Number of Secrets: 8

1. From the start of the level, head left and you'll see a staircase heading up
to a red brick building, so head up it. At the top is a door to your right, so
open it and enter the building. Drop down to the floor below you. Down here,
head left and you'll stop at a wall. Once you stop at a wall, there should be
an opening to your left, so go through it and follow it to a crate. To the
right of this crate should be a switch, so hit it and the wall will open,
revealing an opening, so step through it. Out here, step forward for a credit
for a secret. There is a Clip, Shotgun Shells, and a Medikit.

2. From secret 1, go back inside the opening. Back in here, press the Spacebar
on the crate to your right and it will lower, revealing a switch. Hit this
switch and then get on the other side of these crates. You'll see a staircase
being created to one of the crates, so head up it. At the top, step through the
teleporter. Once you've been teleported, you'll get credit for a secret. But
you can RUN forward into a window to get into the building with the Soulsphere,
but this doesn't count as a secret.

3. Now you'll be back near the level's starting point. Go back up the stairs
leading to the red brick building and head through the opening. Back in here,
head left and you'll see a pit, so head down it. Down here, follow this hallway
to a lift. Once you get to it, lower it, get on it, and ride it to the top. Up
here, you'll see a switch across from you. Hit it and it will open, revealing a
Box of Shotgun Shells. Collect them to get credit for a secret.

4. From secret 3, turn left and you'll see a teleporter. Next to the teleporter
is a pit, so jump down into it. Down here, follow this hallway to a door. Once
you get to it, open it and go through it. In here, get the Blue Key in the
opening to your left but do NOT step through the teleporters. Instead, turn
around and head up the stairs. At the top, step through the teleporter. Once
you've been teleported, you'll get credit for a secret. In this room are Boxes
of Bullets to your left and Boxes of Shotgun Shells to your right.

5. Once you get credit for a secret 4, open the door in front of you and you'll
see a window. Across from you is a building. On the other side of this building
is an opening, so drop back down to the ground and go through it. In here, head
up the stairs in here. At the top, open the Blue Door to your right and go
through it. In here, walk forward to get credit for a secret. There is a Box of
Bullets and a Box of Rockets.

6. From secret 5, drop back down to the ground below you. Down here, go to the
building with the switch on it across from you. Over here, hit the switch to
lower the lift next to you. Now get on it and ride it to the top. Up here, open
the door to your left and go through it. In here, follow this walkway to a gap.
At the gap, there is another platform to your right with an Automap and
Chaingun. RUN onto it to get credit for a secret. Collect the Chaingun and
Automap for due respect.

7. Now, drop down into the pit below you. Down here, head right and you'll be
teleported. Once you're teleported, the walls around you will lower. Once
they're lowered, drop down to the ground to the right. Down here, turn right
and you'll see an opening to your right, so go through it. In this alley, you
should see Shotgun Shells in front of you. Pick them up and turn right. Press
Spacebar on the wall in front of you and it will lower, revealing a MegaArmor.
Pick it up to get credit for a secret.

8. From secret 7, head left and you'll see 4 teleporters. Step onto any of
them. Once you teleport, walk forward, hold shift, and RUN BACKWARDS and you
should land on a platform. On here, open the Blue Door and go through it. In
here, drop down to the floor below you. Down here, look for a small crate. On
one side is a switch. Hit it and the platform to your left will lower. Step on
it to get credit for a secret. On here is a Chainsaw.

--------------------------
Level 14: The Inmost Dens
--------------------------

Number of Secrets: 0

There are no secrets in this level, which means you can only get 0% for a
secrets score. But in some source port such as ZDoom, the game will give you
100% for a secrets score. Even though some areas may be hidden, they will not
be counted on your secrets score.

------------------------------
Level 15: The Industrial Zone
------------------------------

Number of Secrets: 11

Even though there are 11 secrets in this level, you can only get a maximum
secrets score of 90% without cheating. This is because one of the secrets was
placed on the smack middle of a teleporter, and a player cannot get credit for
a secret without stepping on it before being teleported away. Now, on with the
secrets.

1. From the start of the level, open the door to your left and go through it.
In here, hit the switch on the wall and the lift you're on will lower. Down
here, go through the opening in front of you. Out here, go through the opening
to the right of the building in front of you. The building across from you
should be surrounded by a lava moat. Head up the stairs to enter the building.
At the top, face the Rocket Launcher and then turn around. You'll see a
teleporter on a platform, so back up and RUN onto it to the teleporter. Now
step on it. Once you're teleported, you'll be on a walkway.

RUN FORWARD to land on another walkway. On here, hit the switch and then drop
down into the building to your left. Down here, step through the teleporter.
Once you've been teleported, step back through the same teleporter. Once you've
been teleported, pick up the Red Key in front of you. Now if you see that small
little gap, drop down to it for a Berserk. Now press Spacebar on the crate for
it to lower. Once it's been lowered, step on it for credit for a secret.

2. In this same room, step back through the same teleporter again. Back on
here, walk forward and you'll see a window to your left, so drop down into it.
Down here, leave this building. Now go back into the same Red Key room and step
onto the same teleporter. On here, go back through the same window and you'll
land on a higher ledge. Now cross it and you'll see a platform with a Chaingun
and Box of Bullets on it. RUN onto it to get credit for a secret.

3. From here, drop down to the floor below you and leave this building. Back
out here, turn left and then head left. Now go all the way straight and you'll
stop at a lift. Hit the switch next to it to lower it. Now get on it and ride
it to the top. Up here, open the Red Door and go through it. In here, look for
an Invisibility Sphere. Once you find it, turn left to the wall. This is a
hidden door, so open it and go through it. You'll drop down to a lava pit and
get credit for a secret. Down here is a Box of Rockets and a Backpack.

4. While you are in secret 3, use the lifts to get out of here. Back out here,
get back to the Red Door and go through it. This time, follow this hall to a
teleporter and then step through it. On here, use the switch to lower the lift
next to you. Now get on it and ride it to the top. Up here, go through the
opening next to you. In here, get to the BFG and a wall in front of you will
open, revealing the Yellow Key. Pick it up and then turn around. Hit the switch
on this pedestal and then head up the stairs. At the top, turn left and then
drop down to the floor to your left.

Down here, skip this torch and follow it to another torch. Face the huge pit
next to this torch. Save your game and RUN on the gap, trying to land onto the
pedestal. If you do, get the Radiation Suit and hit the switch. If not, load
your saved game and try again. In the pit, a door will open across from you
once you hit the switch. Go through it and it will take you to an Invincibility
Sphere. Pick it up for credit to a secret.

5. From secret 4, use the teleporter near the building to get back on here.
Back on here, turn around and head up the stairs. At the top, RUN across the
gap to get onto a platform. On here, open the Yellow Door and go through it. In
here, follow this lava river to a switch. Once you get to it, hit it. Now
follow this back to an opening. Back in here, head up the long staircase to
your right. At the top, lower the lift in front of you, get on it, and ride it
to the top. Up here, you'll be on top of the castle. Follow this path to a
switch and then save your game.

Hit the switch and drop down to the floor to your right. Back down here, open
the Yellow Door. In here, go through the opening next to you. In here, get on
the lift while it's still lowered. If not, load your saved game. Now ride it to
the top. Up here is a Plasma Gun and a secret area.

6 and 7. Now the fun part of the secrets. Drop down to the floor below you.
Down here, head up the staircase across from you. In this little hall, remove
the Yellow Bars and follow this to another Yellow Door. Once you get to it,
open it and go through it. In here, walk forward and the wall in front of you
will lower. Now follow this path and RUN to the end of it. At the end, you
should see a window with a Megasphere in it. If it closes, start at the
beginning of the path again. If not, RUN into it to get credit for two secrets.

8. From secret 7, head back up the stairs next to you. At the top, walk forward
and the wall in front of you will open. Facing it, turn around and back up
until you see a wall across from you open. Once you see it, go through it. In
here, you'll get credit for a secret. There are two Energy Cells to the right.

9. In secret 8, go through the opening to your right. In here, hit the switch
to your left. Now go back into the previous room and you'll see a teleporter.
Step onto it and you'll be right in front of a Chainsaw. You will also get
credit for a secret.

10. Now, with all of this said and done, you should have the secret area
accessible by now. Step into the hallway leading to the secret exit teleporter
and you'll get credit for a secret. Finally you're done with this crazy level.

------------------
Level 16: Suburbs
------------------

Number of Secrets: 4

1. From the start of the level, go straight and open the door next to you and
go through it. Out here, turn right. On the building in front of you, there is
a door, so open it and go through it. In here, open the door to your left and
go through it. In here, you'll see a platform in front of you. Get in front of
it and press the Spacebar on it and it will lower, so get on it and ride it to
the top. Up here, you'll see a flame on the bookshelf in front of you. Shoot it
with a Pistol, either Shotgun or a Chaingun, and the wall to your right will
open, revealing a Megasphere. To get credit for this secret, fall in that small
hole in front of the MegaSphere.

2. From secret 1, search the room for a red torch. Once you find it, walk up to
it and press the Spacebar. A wall to your right will open, but if you walk up
to the remaining platform and press Spacebar on it, it will lower. So get on it
and ride it to the top. Up here, you'll see eyes on the bookshelf. Shoot it
with the usual weapons and a door to your right will open, revealing 2 Boxes of
Shotgun Shells and a Backpack. Step through into this room to get credit for a
secret.

3. From secret 2, head up the stairs to your left. At the top, drop down to the
ground below you. Down here, walk past the staircase and go through the opening
across from you. Out here, turn right and you'll see a red building. There are
3 doors on it. Open the door on the east side of the building and it will show
a wall. This wall is fake, so walk through it. You'll be in the inner part of
the building, but you'll get credit for a secret once you step into it.

4. We're not done with this area yet. The wall to your right is a lift, so
lower it, get on it, and ride it to the top. Up here, you'll see a ledge. Use
this platform to RUN onto it. On here, you'll see a pit in the middle of this
walkway, so fall down it. Down here, there is a switch, so hit it to lower this
lift. It will also lower, revealing a small room, so step through it. In this
room is a Medikit, 3 Energy Cell Packs, and a nice BFG.

--------------------
Level 17: Tenements
--------------------

Number of Secrets: 3

1. Once you start this level, progress the game until you get to the Blue Key.
Once you have the Blue Key, go to the walkway on the south part of the room.
Now, drop down to the pit to your left. Down here, hit the switch on the
walkway and a lift to your right will lower. You'll also notice an opening to
your right, so go through it. In here, there are 5 Armor Bonuses. Step through
the opening to your right to get credit for a secret. This lift brings you
nothing interesting, only a Chaingun at the top.

2. Now progress the game until you have the Yellow Key. Once you have the
Yellow Key, hit the switch to lower the yellow bars, and then go through the
new opening. In here, head straight to the walkway and then drop down into the
slime pit below you. Down here, face the walkway and you'll see a switch. Hit
it and the walkway will lower, revealing another switch across from you. Hit
this switch and then turn around. You'll see a new window to your right at the
end of the walkway. RUN into the window. In this secret room are Armor Bonuses
and a BFG at the top of the staircase.

3. From secret 2, head up the left staircase at the end of the walkway. At the
top, open the door to your right and go through it. In here, hit the switch at
the top of the stairs and then leave this room. Back in here, go through the
new opening across from you. In here, walk forward and the lift in front of you
will lower, so get on it. On here, turn right and wait for the lift to rise.
You'll see an opening as the lift is rising. Once you see the opening, try to
go through it. There is a Megasphere at the end of this secret hall.

------------------------
Level 18: The Courtyard
------------------------

Number of Secrets: 4

1. Once you start this level, shoot the door in front of you and it will open,
so go through it. Out here, go through the opening to your left and you'll be
in the courtyard. Get to the staircase at the other side of the courtyard. Once
you get to it, turn right. Go all the way straight into the big opening across
from you. In here, you'll see a gray structure that is shaped like a "+" sign.
On it is a switch. Hit it and then follow the right hand wall to an opening.
There should be a teleporter across from you. If it just raised, go back and
hit the switch. Now step through the teleporter and you'll be taken to a secret
area. Walk forward to get credit for a secret.

2. From secret 1, you'll see two faces on the wall. Press the Spacebar on them
and they will lower, revealing the courtyard below, so drop down to it. Back
down here, go through the opening in the west part of the courtyard. In here,
go through the middle opening in front of you. In this hallway, follow it to a
BFG. Once you get to the BFG, pick it up to get credit for a secret. After
that, the door behind you will close, so hit the nearby switch to open it and
get out of here.

3. From secret 2, get to the Yellow Key. Once you have the Yellow Key, turn
around and face the corner. You'll notice a slightly darker floor in the
corner. Step onto it and you'll be teleported. Once you're teleported, you'll
get credit for a secret. On this secret platform is a Computer Area Map and a
Medikit.

4. From secret 3, drop down to the floor below you. Down here, go through the
opening to your right. In here, follow this hallway to a teleporter. Once you
get to a teleporter, step through it. In here, open the door in front of you
and go through it. In this big room, turn left and you'll see a green wall.
This is a hidden door, so open it and go through it. Now you'll be in a maze.
In here, walk forward and you'll stop at a wall. Turn left and you'll see a
switch. Hit it and the wall will lower, revealing a Chaingun. Pick it up to get
credit for a secret.

----------------------
Level 19: The Citadel
----------------------

Number of Secrets: 9

1. Once you start this level, open the door in front of you and go through it.
In here, open the door, hit the switch in here, and then leave this room. Back
in here, open the door next to you and go through it. Out here, open the door
across from you and go through it. In here, head up the stairs to the right. At
the top, open the door to the right and go through it. In here, hit the switch
on the pedestal and the stairs in front of you will be created, so head up
them. At the top, turn left and you'll see a gray wall in between two face
symbols. This is a hidden door, so open it and go through it. In here, RUN up
the stairs strafing and you should land on a platform. On here, there should be
a teleporter so step through it. You'll collect a Soulsphere when being
teleported and you'll get credit for a secret.

2. From secret 1, walk up to the door and then back up. You'll be teleported.
On this platform, turn left and you'll see an Imp cage. In the back is a red
wall. Shoot it with a Pistol, either Shotgun, or a Chaingun and a platform to
the right will rise, so RUN onto it. On here, open the door and go through it.
In here, head down the stairs. Down here, collect the Red Key to get credit for
a secret. There is also additional ammo down here next to the Red Key.

3. From secret 2, drop down to the floor to your left. Down here, open the door
to the left and go through it. Back in this room, open the door to the right
and go through it. In here, hit the switch on the pedestal. Now go through the
opening in front of you. In here, follow this hall to a door and then walk up
to it. As you approach it, you'll hear the sound of a door opening, so leave
this room. Back in here, go through the opening to your left. In here, follow
this hallway to the Yellow Key. Once you have the Yellow Key, you'll get credit
for a secret.

4. From secret 3, turn around and drop back down to the floor below you. Down
here, hit the switch on the pedestal. Now turn around and go through the
opening in front of you. In here, go through the opening to the left. Open the
door in this hall and go through it. There is an Invisibility Sphere in this
room and you'll get credit for a secret for stepping into this room. There is
health and ammo in here as well.

5. Now leave secret 4. Back in this hall, head left until you see an opening to
your left. Once you see the opening, notice the wall next to it to the left.
This is a hidden door, so open it and go through it. In this secret area is an
Armor. Step through to get credit for a secret.

6. From secret 5, lower the lift in front of you, get on it, and ride it to the
top. Up here, walk forward into the hallway to get credit for another easy
secret.

7. Now RUN DOWN THIS HALLWAY AND KEEP RUNNING OUT OF THE OPENING. If you ran
fast enough, you'll run out of the window, over the ledge and then into a
river. If you landed into a river, head up the stairs in front of you to get
credit for a secret.

8. From secret 7, head up the stairs in front of you. At the top, go through
the opening to your left. In here, hit the switch to the right and a wall
behind you will open. Go through it and then leave this room. In this hall, go
back through the opening to the right. Out here, you'll see a wall lowering to
your left. Step through it to get credit for a secret. There is a Medikit and a
Computer Area Map.

9. From secret 8, go through the opening to the right this time. In here,
follow this hallway to a bigger room. In this big room is a staircase. Head up
it into a smaller room. Up here, hit the switch and then head back down the
stairs. Down here, go through the new opening across from you. In here, you'll
be in a room with 5 teleporters. Step into the teleporter in the top right
corner. Once you teleport, you'll get credit for a secret. The Blue Key is just
across from you.

------------------
Level 20: Gotcha!
------------------

Number of Secrets: 7

1. From the start of the level, turn around and you'll see a lava pit. Walk
into it and a circular walkway will be created. Take the walkway on the right
and follow it to a switch. Once you get to the switch, drop down to the gap to
your right. Down here, there is an opening with a Radiation Suit and an Energy
Cell Pack. Step into it to get credit for a secret. Grab the Radiation Suit
because you'll really need it in this level.

2. From secret 1, follow this lava river to another opening. In this opening,
there is a teleporter. Step through it and you'll be taken back to the level's
starting point. Now drop down into the lava pit to your left. Down here, follow
the left hand wall to a huge lava pit. Once you get to it, drop down to it.
Down here, you'll see a switch, so hit it and the lift to your right will
lower, so get on it and ride it to the top. Up here, follow this long hallway
to a teleporter, going up and down all the lifts you see. Once you get to a
teleporter, you'll see a Berserk. To the left of a hidden Berserk is a hidden
door, so open it and go through it. Once you step through, you'll get credit
for a secret.

3. While you are in secret 2, there is a teleporter in this secret room. Step
through it and you'll be on a pillar with a Medikit. RUN onto the walkway in
front of you. On here, drop down to the lava pit in front of you. Down here,
there is a stone building to the right. Walk up to it and turn right. Follow
this wall to an opening. In here, head up the stairs in front of you. At the
top, step through the teleporter in front of you. Once you're teleported, hit
the switch next to you and the floor you're on will rise. Up here, turn around
and you'll see a Medikit. To the right of it is a hidden door. Open it. You'll
see an Energy Cell in front of you. Collect it to get credit for a secret.

4. From secret 3, the wall to the left is a hidden door. Open it and it will
reveal a Soulsphere. Collect it to get credit for a secret.

5. Secret 5 is a rip-off. In secret 4, the wall in front of you is a hidden
door. Open the door and it will reveal...nothing. All you can do is just step
through to get credit for a secret.

6. From this secret, open the hidden door to the left. Back in here, hit the
switch in front of you. Turn around and you'll see a teleporter, so step
through it. On here, step through the teleporter in front of you. In here, head
down the stairs. At the bottom, RUN into the window. In here, head right and
step through this teleporter. From here, the floor you're on will lower. Now
head straight and the wall in front of you will lower. While it's lowering, go
back into the teleporter behind you. In here, follow the right hand wall to a
teleporter. Once you get to it, step through it. You'll be teleported onto a
pillar with a Megasphere. Collect it to get credit for a secret.

7. From here, get back onto the walkway below you. Down here, step through the
teleporter. In here, head down the stairs and RUN into the window. Back in this
window, step through the teleporter to the right. You'll be back where the wall
lower. Drop into the pit below you and go through the opening. In here, walk
into the big room. Now notice the wall in the south part of this room. There is
a different design on one part of the wall. This is a hidden door, so open it
and go through it. In this secret area is a Soulsphere and a Box of Bullets.

------------------
Level 21: Nirvana
------------------

Number of Secrets: 0

There are no secrets in this level. Even though there are no secrets in this
level, you may exit the level with 100% in some source ports, like ZDoom. Have
a nice day, and they'll be secrets next level.

------------------------
Level 22: The Catacombs
------------------------

Number of Secrets: 3

1. Once you start this level, turn left and you'll see a green wall. This is a
hidden door, so open it and go through it. In this secret area, there is an
Armor, a Soulsphere, and a Box of Rockets. Step forward to get credit for an
easy secret. Watch out for the Spectre in here.

2. From secret 1, turn around. You'll see a row of torches lined up. If you
notice, one of the torches is green. Walk up to the green torch and press the
Spacebar on it. A lift to your right will lower, revealing access to the room
behind you. In this secret room, there is a Plasma Gun and Heavy Weapon Dudes.
Step through to get credit for a secret.

3. Now, progress the game until you have the Red Key. Once you have the Red
Key, you'll notice a demon face symbol on the wall to your right. This is a
hidden door, so open it and it will reveal a teleporter. This teleporter is a
little shortcut, bringing you back to the level's starting point. Step into
this small space to get credit for a secret.

-------------------------
Level 23: Barrels 'O Fun
-------------------------

Number of Secrets: 2

1. From the start of the level, progress the game until you get to the first
switch in this level. Hit this switch and then turn around, heading all the way
back to the other end of this room. There is a new platform to your left. Cross
it to the platform across from you. On here, turn left and you'll see two
openings across from you. Enter the one to the right. In here, get to the end
of this hallway. If you notice to the left of you, there is a platform next to
you. RUN out of the opening and onto this. On here, go through the opening next
to you to get credit for a secret. In this secret area is a Megasphere and two
Boxes of Rockets.

2. From secret 1, turn around and get onto the center platform. On here, drop
down to the pit to your right and step through the teleporter. In here, go
through the opening across from you and then follow this hallway to an opening
to the left. Once you get to it, go through it. In this area is a switch. Hit
it and it will open, revealing a Soulsphere. Pick it up to get credit for your
secret.

--------------------
Level 24: The Chasm
--------------------

Number of Secrets: 4

1. Once you start this level, turn right and follow this pathway until you see
a thin ledge leading to a platform with a Shotgun on it to the left. Once you
see this platform, RUN onto the Shotgun and pick it up. Now walk forward and a
window in front of you will open. RUN into it to get credit for a secret. In
this secret area, there is a Stimpack, a Rocket, and a Box of Shotgun Shells.

2. From secret 1, turn around and drop down into the slime pit below you. Down
here, search for a teleporter and then step through it. You should be
teleported onto a red platform with many of them in front of you. RUN across
these red platforms into a window. In here, step through the teleporter. Once
you have been teleported, head right and follow this hallway to a switch. Once
you get to a switch, hit it. Now turn around and follow the right hand wall to
another switch. Once you get to this switch, hit it. Turn around and follow the
right hand wall to another switch. Hit this switch and backtrack to the
teleporter, and then step through it.

Once you've been teleported, drop down into the slime pit and step through the
teleporter in front of you. Now you'll be back on the red platforms. Use these
to get onto the platform to your left. Back on here, there should be a new
staircase to your left, so head up it. At the top, you'll be in a big room, so
step forward to get credit for a secret.

3. While you are in secret two, turn right and face the wall. You'll see a
computer-like panel. Press the Spacebar on this and a lift behind you will
lower. So get on it and ride it to the top. Up in this secret area, there are
Shotgun Shells, a Medikit and two Boxes of Rockets. Collect them to get credit
for a secret.

4. From secret 3, progress the game until you have the Blue Key. Once you have
the Blue Key, get to the Blue Door and then open it and go through it. In here,
follow this very thin walkway until you see one to your right. Once you see it,
take this walkway and follow it until you get to a big hole in the middle of 4
walkways. In this pit is an Invincibility Sphere and a lava pit. Jump into the
middle onto the Invincibility Sphere to get a secret. To get out of this hole,
fall into the lava pit and face one of the corners. Walk up to it and keep
pressing the Spacebar on the corner until the lava rises up to the walkway so
you can get out.

---------------------
Level 25: Bloodfalls
---------------------

Number of Secrets: 2

1. From the start of the level, progress the game until you have the Blue Key.
Once you have the Blue Key, drop down into the lava pit and then head up the
stairs in front of you. At the top, walk up to the door and it will open. In
here, walk forward until you see green tiles on the wall to your left. This is
a hidden door, so open it and go through it. In this secret area, there are two
Energy Cell Packs.

2. From secret 1, progress the game until you get to the Blue Door. Once you
are at the Blue Door, open it and go through it. In here, lower the lift across
from you, get on it, and ride it to the top. Up here, turn left and face the
walls to the left. If you notice, one part of the wall is slightly different
designed than the others. This is a hidden door, so open it and it will reveal
a BFG on low skill levels. If you are playing on hard skill levels, it will
reveal...nothing. Still, you gotta step through and get credit for your secret.

------------------------------
Level 26: The Abandoned Mines
------------------------------

Number of Secrets: 4

1. Once you start this level, turn around. You'll see a different design on the
walls to the left. This is a hidden door, so open it and go through it. In
here, there is a pillar with a Plasma Gun on it. To get to it, step through the
teleporter in the southwest pit. You'll be then taken to a pillar, so the RUN
onto the pillar with the Plasma Gun on it. But you'll get the credit for a
secret once you step into this room.

2. Now go back to the level's starting point. Back in here, hit the switch in
front of you and the floor you're on will lower. Down here, turn right to the
wall and you'll see a weird design on it. This is a hidden door, so open it and
go through it. In this secret area, there is a Backpack and some Shotgun
Shells. Step into this room to get credit for a secret.

3. From secret 2, progress the game until you have the Blue Key. Once you have
the Blue Key, you'll see a demon face on the wall in front of you. This is a
hidden door, so open it and it will reveal a switch. Walk into this room to get
credit for a secret before hitting the switch.

4. In secret 3, hit the switch. Now run back to the previous room and you'll
see a lowered lift to your left. Get on this lift and ride it to the top. Up
here, get the MegaArmor in front of you and turn right. On one part of the
wall, it has a slightly different design than the others. This is a hidden
door, so open it and go through it. In this secret area, there are a row of
Health Potions. Follow them to a bigger room with a Soulsphere.

------------------------
Level 27: Monster Condo
------------------------

Number of Secrets: 8

Even though there are 8 secrets in this level, you can only get a maximum
secrets score of 87% without cheating. This is because one of the secrets was
placed on the smack middle of a teleporter, and a player cannot get credit for
a secret without stepping on it before being teleported away. Now, on with the
secrets.

1. You need to be quick in getting to this secret, because after 30 seconds the
wall will shut for good. From the start of the level, you'll see a spiral
staircase across from you. Get to the bottom of it and RUN forward onto the
platform across from you. On here, open the door and go through. If you got to
this room in less than 30 seconds, turn left. You'll see Rockets, a Box of
Bullets and a Box of Shotgun Shells. Quickly step into this area before it
closes to get credit for a secret.

2. From secret 1, go back into the previous door. Back in here, turn left.
You'll see a green triangle with an eye across from you. Walk up to it and a
wall in front of you will lower, revealing an Invisibility Sphere, Light
Amplification Visor, and an Energy Cell. Step into this area to get credit for
a secret.

3. From secret 2, turn around. You'll see a blue flag on the wall to the left.
To lower that, notice that pile of flesh next to it. Walk up to it to lower it.
Now walk past the lowered flag. In this area, head left to the wall and it will
open, revealing a Medikit, a Box of Shotgun Shells, and plenty of Armor
Bonuses. Step into this area to get credit for a secret.

4. From secret 3, progress the game until you have the Yellow Key. Once you
have the Yellow Key, stay where you are. Wait for the wall to shut and then hit
the switch that is on the wall. A wall behind you will lower, revealing a Box
of Rockets, an Energy Cell, and a switch. Step into here to get credit for a
secret. Also hit the switch if you want to get out of here.

5. Go back to the level's starting point. Back in here, RUN over the spiral
stairs onto the platform. On here, open the door and go through it. Back in
this room (where secret 1 is to your left), open the door to the left of the
Blue Door and go through it. In here, there are two switches across from you.
Hit the switch on the right. Turn left and you'll see a new hole, so drop down
into it. Down here, step into the narrow hall to get credit for a secret. There
are plenty of Health Potions in here. The teleporter at the end is a secret,
but it is right on the middle of it so you can't get credit for it before being
teleported away.

6. From secret 5, head into the teleporter. Once you are teleported, you'll see
a BFG to your left. Anyway, progress the game until you get to the Yellow Door.
Once you get to it, open it and go through it. In here, head up the stairs to
your right. At the top, hit the switch next to you and turn around. You'll see
a new room with a Computer Area Map, Berserk and a Soulsphere. Step into it to
get credit for a secret.

7. Before you go to secret 7, get the Blue Key in this room first. Now notice
the tile in the middle of this room. Step onto it to be teleported. Once you
are teleported, head up either staircase next to you. At the top will be a
Berserk, Soulsphere, and a Computer Area Map. Step into this area to get credit
for a secret. Because you can only pick up one Computer Area Map, you cannot
get 100% items, because a Computer Area Map counts towards your item score.

---------------------------
Level 28: The Spirit World
---------------------------

Number of Secrets: 7

1. Once you start this level, turn right and go through the opening in front of
you. Now you'll be in a big room. In here, go through the opening to the right.
If you turn left and look at the wall, you'll notice there is a candle in front
of the wall. This is a hidden door, so open it and it will reveal a Soulsphere.
Collect it to get credit for a secret.

2. There are still 2 more secrets in this room. Go into the next small opening.
There is a candle in front of the wall to your left, so open this hidden door
and it will reveal 4 Backpacks and a Medikit. Collect them all to get credit
for a secret.

3. Now go into the next opening. This time, the candle will be on the wall to
the right. That means the hidden door is to the right, so open it and it will
reveal a Berserk. Collect the Berserk so you can get credit for 3 nice and easy
secrets. Now we can get out of this room.

4. Progress the game until you get to that giant room with the Spider
Mastermind. In this room, drop into the pit and head up the stairs across from
the Yellow Door. At the top, step onto the chair across from you. A pillar
behind you will lower, so step onto it and ride it to the top. You'll get
credit for a secret for stepping onto this pillar.

5. Stay on the lift. Up here, face the chair and turn left. You'll see on those
wall of skulls, one of them has red eyes. That is a switch, so hit it. Turn
around and hit the switch (the skull that has red eyes). Now drop down to the
floor below you. Down here, step through the teleporter BEHIND the chair and
you'll be taken onto a platform with a Megasphere and an Invincibility Sphere.
Talk about a nice combo. You'll get credit for a secret for being teleported.

6. From secret 5, pick up the Yellow Key across from you and you'll be in a
hall. Once you have the Yellow Key, head up the stairs in front of you. At the
top, head straight and you'll stop at a wall. The wall to your left is fake, so
walk into it and you'll be in a hidden room with a Plasma Gun in it. You'll get
credit for a secret once you step into this room.

7. From secret 6, continue down this hall. Part of the wall to your right is
fake, so once you find the fake wall, step through it. In this secret area,
there are Health Potions and Boxes of Bullets.

-------------------------
Level 29: The Living End
-------------------------

Number of Secrets: 0

There are no secrets in this level. Even though there are no secrets in this
level, you may exit the level with 100% in some source ports, like ZDoom. Have
a nice day, and there won't be any secrets in the next level.

----------------------
Level 30: Icon of Sin
----------------------

Number of Secrets: 0

There are no secrets in this level. Even though there are no secrets in this
level, you may exit the level with 100% in some source ports, like ZDoom. Once
you beat this level, congrats on beating Doom II.

----------------------
Level 31: Wolfenstein
----------------------

Number of Secrets: 4

Note that in earlier versions of Doom II, there were no secrets. But in Doom II
1.9, you can get a score of 100% secrets here. Here are the secrets.

1. Once you start this level, open the door in front of you and go through it.
In here, open the door to your left and go through it. Down this hall, open the
door and you'll be in a big room. In here, open the door to the right. Now, go
through the opening to your right and follow this hallway to a door. Once you
get to it, open it and go through it. You'll now be in a room with a lot of
openings. Go into the far opening to the right. In here, open the hidden door
and go through it. There is a BFG, Megasphere, and a Super Shotgun in this
secret area.

2. From secret 1, progress the game all the way until you get to the room with
the exit door. In here, put your back on the door and turn right. The door in
front of you is a hidden door, so open it and step through. In this small room,
there is a Medikit. Walk through it to get credit for a secret.

3. While you are in secret 2, turn right and press Spacebar on the walls until
you find a hidden door. You'll be in a slightly bigger room. The secret exit
door is just across from you, but step into this room to get credit for a
secret.

4. Just before you head to the secret exit, face the exit door and turn left.
Search the walls until you find a hidden door. Once you find it, it will open,
revealing a Soulsphere. Pick up the Soulsphere to get credit for a secret.

-----------------
Level 32: Grosse
-----------------

Number of Secrets: 6

Note that in earlier versions of Doom II, there were no secrets. But in Doom II
1.9, you can get a score of 100% secrets here. Here are the secrets.

1. From the starts of the level, open the door in front of you and go through
it. In here, you'll notice gray, rectangular walls in this room. Press the
Spacebar on the first one to the left and it will open, revealing 3 Chainguns.
Step into this area to get credit for a secret.

2. From secret 2, press Spacebar on the rectangular wall directly across from
this one and it will open, revealing a Megasphere. Pick this Megasphere up to
get credit for a secret.

3. From secret 2, get to the other end of this room. Now facing the last two
rectangular walls, press Spacebar on the one to the left and it will open,
revealing a BFG. Pick it up to get credit for a secret.

4. From secret 3, open the rectangular wall directly across from the one with a
BFG. It will open, revealing a Super Shotgun and 2 Boxes of Shotgun Shells.
Pick them up to get credit for a secret.

5. Now face the wall on the west part of this room. You'll see 3 gold plates.
Press Spacebar on the one in the middle and it will open, revealing a secret
room. Step through it to get credit for a secret. There are Energy Cells,
Medikits, and a Plasma Gun in this nice secret.

6. Now go to the east part of the big room. You'll notice 3 gold plates on this
wall. Again, press Spacebar on the middle plate and it will open, revealing an
Invincibility Sphere. Pick it up to get credit for a secret.

Yay! I am done with all the secrets now!

===================
9. Bugs and Errors
===================

This section has all the bugs and errors I've found in Doom II. If I miss any
tell me.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bugs
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. In level 7: Dead Simple, killing the Mancubi lowers the walls around you,
revealing Arachnotrons. If there are 2 of them remaining, and you kill both of
them at the same time, the game expects that both of them were needed to be
killed to raise the steps to the exit. This causes the steps to be "stacked up"
and you cannot use them to get to the exit. To get past this, use the switches
to lower the northeast/west the Mancubi were on. Get where the pillars were,
and face the platform where the exit switch is on. Now, *run* to it (facing the
corner of the platform), and you should be on it. Now smack the exit switch.
The best way to avoid this is to kill the Arachnotrons one at a time, not right
after each other. If you play the game on Nightmare difficulty, the
Arachnotrons will keep respawning, so each one you kill will make a wall rise
around the exit switch.

2. In the old DOS version of Doom II, the game would crash if you saved your
game when an Arch-vile was attacking you and you loaded it up again. Thanks to
Mike C for this one.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Map Errors
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. In Level 12: The Factory, you'll notice that you need the Yellow Key to open
the door that leads into the room with the 5 switches to open up the exit
teleporter. But when you try to exit this room you will get a message saying
that you need a Red Key to open the door. But there is no Red Key in the whole
level and that there is only a Blue and Yellow Key. The only way you can get a
Red Key is by cheating. Once you enter that room, you cannot leave it.

2. In Level 15: The Industrial Zone, you can only get a maximum secret score of
90%. This is because one of the secrets was put right on the middle of a
teleporter, and a play cannot get credit for that secret before being
teleported away without cheating. To get to this teleporter, open the Yellow
Door. You'll see a staircase to your left. There are Shotgun Shells on one
step, and that's where the hidden door is. Open it where the Shotgun Shells are
to find a teleporter. If you want credit for a secret, use IDCLIP to walk over
the teleporter.

3. In Level 19: The Citadel, there is a room with 5 teleporters in your path to
the Blue Key. The southwest teleporter on this room does not work on skill
levels 1 and 2. This is because an object called a "Teleport Destination" was
only flagged to appear on skill levels 3 and up. What happens when you teleport
is that when you cross a line, you get teleported to the specified room.
However, the room that you are teleporting to MUST have a Teleport Destination
inside it (these are visible in a level editor, but you cannot see them as
objects with the map cheat). The Teleport Destination tells the game where to
put you in the room that you teleported into and the direction you'll be
facing. This Destination object, as I said, was not flagged to be used on easy
skill levels.

You know, for you map creators out there, you could use this as a VERY sneaky
trap. Even I have never thought of this, but I'm pretty sure id Software did
not do that intentionally.

4. In Level 27: Monster Condo, you can only get a maximum secret score of 87%.
This is because one of the secrets was put right on the middle of a teleporter,
and a play cannot get credit for that secret before being teleported away
without cheating. This teleporter is located at the end of the secret hall with
all of the Health Potions in it. If you want credit for this secret, use IDCLIP
to walk over the teleporter.

5. In Level 27: Monster Condo, an item score of 100% is impossible. This is
because there are two Computer Area Maps in this level, as they do count
towards your item score. No problem, right? If there are multiple Computer Area
Maps in a level, you can only pick up one, then it becomes impossible to pick
up another. These Computer Area Maps are located in the secret areas near the
Blue Key.

=========================
10. How to use a BFG9000
=========================

Don't you hate it when you fire a BFG9000 and it doesn't kill any enemies in
front of you? Well, here's how to use it correctly. Here are the locations I
have found the BFG:

Level 8: Tricks and Traps
Level 9: The Pit
Level 10: Refueling Base
Level 11: Circle of Death
Level 12: The Factory
Level 13: Downtown
Level 15: Industrial Zone
Level 16: Suburbs
Level 17: Tenements
Level 18: The Courtyard
Level 20: Gotcha!
Level 25: Bloodfalls (Low skill levels only)
Level 27: Monster Condo
Level 28: The Spirit World
Level 30: Icon of Sin
Level 31: Wolfenstein
Level 32: Grosse

The BFG9000 should only be used carefully. It will also kill any enemies that
you see once the BFG blast hits something.

                 ___
----------------| X |--------------
  S       S                        |
  S             E                  |
              E     E              |
         E     E  B      E         |
-----------------------------------


The X is you. The B is where the BFG blast hit. The E are the enemies that die.
The S are the ones that survive. If you turn right and back up (so you can see
the BFG blast before it hits something), it should also kill the enemies that
were the survivors.

********************
How to dodge a BFG
********************

If you play a Doom online deathmatch, you should be aware of people who use the
BFG frequently. They shouldn't be too much of a problem if you know how to
dodge a BFG blast correctly. If you know how to, look here.

 _________________________
|                     _   |
|  M                B|_|X |
|                         |
|                         |
|_________________________|

Say the X is you. The M is your enemy and the B is where the BFG hit. The
square between you and the BFG blast is a pillar. Since your enemy couldn't see
you and the BFG blast hit, you will not be hurt/killed. If you move out and he
can see you, you should be killed.

As long as your enemy cannot see you, the blast is not going to hurt/kill you.
Another way to do this is not only hide behind something, but to get out of
your enemy's sight. Since it takes a second or two before the BFG fires, you
can also try to kill your enemy and then hide when the BFG blast is launched
(even if an enemy is dead the BFG can still kill you).

====================
11. Ghost Monsters
====================

There are ghost monsters in the game that cannot be hit and can walk through
walls. This is because they are ghost monsters.

Forming of a Ghost Monster: If you kill any enemy (except for a Lost Soul,
Arch-vile, Cyberdemon, Spider Mastermind, or Nazi), and their dead boy is right
where a door shuts (or between the edge of a lift and the ceiling), their body
will be crushed. And if an Arch-vile revives that dead monster, they can become
a ghost (since they were under a door).

Even though Pain Elementals explode and disappear, they can still be crushed on
a door or lift on just the right timing. You have to get them on the lift/door
and kill them, and have the door close on them in time before they disappear.
This is very hard to do.

Why some enemies can't be ghost form:

Lost Soul: No corpse
Arch-vile: Cannot be revived
Spider Mastermind: Cannot be revived
Cyberdemon: Cannot be revived
Nazi: No Arch-vile at the Levels Wolfenstein or Grosse

How to kill ghost monsters: There are many ways to do this, but some can be
tricky. First, lure the ghost monster to a wall, then fire your Rocket Launcher
(if you have one) to the left or right of it, and the part of the rocket's
detonation should damage/kill it. Bullets/Shells/Rockets/Cells cannot kill them
either.

Also, if you can get them in a fight, the scratch of an Imp/Hell Knight/Baron
of Hell, or a punch by a Revenant can hurt them. Also, the explosion of a
rocket from a Cyberdemon can hurt them too. I'm also pretty sure Arch-viles can
hurt them too with their fire.

Enemies that cannot damage ghost monsters: Bullet from a Zombiemen, Shotgun Guy
Spider Mastermind, or Heavy Weapon Dude, fireball from an Imp, Hell Knight,
Baron of Hell, Cacodemon, Mancubus, Revenant, cells from an Arachnotron, rocket
from a Cyberdemon, charging of a Lost Soul, etc.

If this happens to you, good luck.

================
12. Cheat Codes
================

Here are some codes for all of you cheaters out there. Of course, you can use
these for fun in the game and to have fun in the levels. You can type these
cheats in anytime during gameplay. These cheats, with the exception of the full
map and level warp cheat, do not work on the Nightmare difficulty level.

      CHEAT      |   EFFECTS
-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------
IDDQD            | -Permanent invincibility (no white screen)
                 | -Health is set to 100% automatically, regardless of current
                 |  health
                 | -Can be toggled off by entering cheat again
-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------
IDKFA            | -Grants player all weapons, all keys, full armor, maximum
                 |  ammo (no Backpack provided)
                 | -Entering cheat in again replenishes armor and ammo to
                 |  maximum levels
-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------
IDFA             | -Grants player all weapons, full armor, maximum ammo (no
                 |  Backpack provided)
                 | -Entering cheat in again replenishes armor and ammo to
                 |  maximum levels
                 | -Does NOT provide keys, unlike IDKFA
-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------
IDCLIP           | -Allows the player to walk through walls, outside map
                 | -Walkover lines, like teleporters, can NOT be activated
                 |  while this cheat is on
                 | -Items can NOT be picked up while this cheat is on
                 | -Can be toggled off by entering cheat again
-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------
IDBEHOLDx        | -Gives the player a power-up. To choose a power-up,
                 |  replace the x with one of the following letters:
                 |  S: Berserk
                 |  A: Computer Area Map
                 |  R: Radiation Suit
                 |  I: Invisibility Sphere
                 |  L: Light Amplification Goggles
                 |  V: Invincibility (temporary, white screen)
                 |  -Cheat can be used to remove a power-up the player has
                 |  (with the exception of the Computer Area Map. For
                 |  example, you can type IDBEHOLDR to remove a Radiation
                 |  Suit that you may have in effect.
-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------
IDCLEVxx         | -Can be used to warp to a level. "xx" is the level number
                 |  that you will warp to. For example, IDCLEV12 will take you
                 |  to Level 12.
-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------
IDMUSxx          | -Changes the music to the music from the specified level.
                 |  "xx" is the map number you want to change the music to. For
                 |  example, IDMUS03 will change the music to the music from
                 |  Level 3.
                 |  -To change to music outside of the levels:
                 |   IDMUS33: Story Text Screen
                 |   IDMUS34: Title Screen
                 |   IDMUS35: Intermission
-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------
IDDT             | -Must be entered in Automap
                 | -Entering IDDT once reveals the entire Automap
                 | -Entering IDDT a second time puts all objects on the map
                 |  (items, enemies, etc) in the form of green triangles
                 | -Entering IDDT a third time resets Automap back to normal
                 | -Cheat is permanent, remains turned on until you quit game
                 |  or manually turn it off
                 | -When cheat is turned on, the "DDT" initials will appear on
                 |  the player arrow. DDT stands for Dave D. Taylor, who
                 |  designed the Automap in this game. To see his initials,
                 |  zoom in really close and have the player arrow facing east.
-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------
IDMYPOS          | -Prints out the player's current coordinates on the map, in
                 |  hexadecimal format (most source ports make this cheat more
                 |  useful, such as providing it to you in numerical format)
-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------
IDCHOPPERS       | -Gives the player a Chainsaw
-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------
      CHEAT      |   EFFECTS

===================
13. Update History
===================

Version .15, December 13, 2003: Started FAQ, Walkthrough has the first five
levels done.

Version .34, December 14, 2003: Walkthrough now has up to Level 11 done.

Version .50, December 16, 2003: Walkthrough now has up to Level 31 done (level
31 is a secret level, accessed from Level 15, and I did guide to that level).

Version .56, December 17, 2003: Finished two more levels in my Walkthrough.
Also did the Credits section.

Version .59, December 18, 2003: Finished Level 17 in my Walkthrough. I thought
I would never finish that level, so you better like the Walkthrough for it.

Version .62, December 19, 2003: Finished Level 18 in my Walkthrough.

Version .68, December 20, 2003: Finished Levels 19 and 20 in my Walkthrough.

Version .71, December 22, 2003: Finished Level 21 in my Walkthrough. And it's
the first day of winter for me up here (and I don't like the winter, or the
snow).

Version .75, December 24, 2003: Finished Level 22 in my Walkthrough. Also added
another Control in my Controls section (pause). Merry Christmas everybody!

Version .78, December 27, 2003: Finished Level 23 in my Walkthrough.

Version .81, December 28, 2003: Finished Level 24 in my Walkthrough.

Version .87, December 29, 2003: Finished Levels 25 and 26 in my Walkthrough.

Version .90, December 30, 2003: Finished Level 27 in my Walkthrough.

Version .93, January 2, 2004: Finished Level 28 in my Walkthrough. Also got the
right level for the BFG's first appearance in my Weapons section. Happy New
Years everybody!

Version 1.00, January 3, 2004: Finished Levels 29 and 30 in my Walkthrough.
Woo-Hoo! I'm finally done with the Walkthrough!

Version 1.10, January 10, 2004: Added in "Weapon Controls" in my Controls
section.

Version 1.35, April 13, 2004: Added a "Bugs and Errors" section in this
FAQ/Walkthroughs. It already has 3 Bugs/Errors in it.

Version 1.55, May 23, 2004: Re-wrote Level 8 in my Walkthrough so it covers a
few secrets in it as well.

Version 1.70, July 29, 2004: Added a "How to use a BFG" section in my
Walkthrough, for those who aren't good at using it. It also shows how to dodge
one.

Version 1.85, August 8, 2004: Added a "Ghost Monsters" section in this
FAQ/Walkthrough, to show how to deal with ghost monsters.

Version 1.90, August 25, 2004: Added another bug in my "Bugs and Glitches"
section, thanks to Mike C for this one.

Version 2.10, October 30, 2004: Added info about Doom95 in my controls section.

Version 2.15, December 27, 2004: Added another bug in my Bugs and Errors
section, thanks to a person who emailed me about this error.

Version 2.30, April 9, 2005: Added an Asked Questions section, since the first
(good) question was finally asked.

Version 2.50, May 22, 2005: Added a Codes section into this guide.

Version 3.00, July 23, 2005: Did a complete overhaul to the beginning of the
FAQ. For my enemies and weapons section, I made it more detailed instead of
using short, choppy sentences. I also added in 2 enemies I forgot, the SS
Officer and Commander Keen. For my items section, I made it more organized and
detailed.

Version 3.25, August 16, 2005: I am halfway done with an overhaul to this
guide. I added a secrets section to this guide, which will cover all of the
secrets in all levels. So far, I have the first 16 levels done. I will upload
when I have the other half of the 32 levels done.

Version 3.50, August 19, 2005: Finished the rest of the 16 levels in my secrets
section. So now this guide has all secrets in all 32 levels. I am not done with
this guide for now, so there should be minor tweaks to the guide sooner or
later.

Version 3.65, August 20, 2005: Did all of the tweaks that I mentioned
yesterday. I moved this section to the bottom of this guide so you won't have
to scroll through it to get through everything. Part 2 is that I completely re-
did my Bugs section, and divided it into "Bugs" and "Map Errors", making it
more organized. Part 3 is that I changed my format in the walkthrough. Instead
of using ******* is level dividers, I switched them to ------.

Version 3.70, September 14, 2005: I added a question to my Asked Questions
section. It's about creating demos for Doom95, and for those who have problems.

Version 3.85, October 17, 2005: Well, thanks to Josh Phillips, I fixed up my
items section. He told me there was no health section for it, so I just added
the Health/Armor section to my Items section, which covers the items that heal
you and your armor. I also fixed the 1 spelling mistake he pointed out. I also
added him to the credits section.

Version 3.90, December 1, 2005: Added in a question to the Asked Questions
section that is always frequently asked.

Version 3.95, March 2, 2006: Added a new question to the Asked Questions
section and updated Led Meister's credit in the credits section.

Version 4.10, May 28, 2006: Added a links section, which has links to Doom
websites that are very useful. Also, I fixed up my Asked Questions section a
bit.

Version 4.20, July 17, 2008: Once again, I fixed the Asked Questions section,
removing a question unrelated to this game and also updating another question.
I also spiced up the end of my walkthrough for Level 1: Entryway. Go me.

Version 4.30, June 30, 2009: Added a bug regarding a teleporter in Level 19:
The Citadel to my Bugs section. I also removed a link to Doom Legacy's site, as
it redirects you to the NewDoom message boards.

Version 4.50, September 8, 2009: Added a more detailed description regarding
Armor under my Health/Armor section.

Version 4.60, July 13, 2013: Updated the status bar in my walkthrough section.
Also provided more clarity about the skill levels in this game, and updated the
Asked Questions section to provide better information about the availability of
this game today. Also provided a better description for the Light Amplification
Goggles.

Version 4.70, May 12, 2014: Re-wrote the cheats section of this walkthrough to
provide a better description of the cheats.

Version 4.80, June 11, 2014: Re-wrote the story texts so that they are in ALL
CAPS (just like in the game) and put them into line breaks similar to what is
seen in the game as well.

Version 4.85, February 25, 2015: Re-wrote the weapons section and fixed a few
spelling/grammar mistakes.

Version 4.90, April 23, 2015: Re-wrote the walkthrough for Level 15: Industrial
Zone, as I have now found a new, easier way to open up the secret exit. In
addition, I also re-wrote the first part of my walkthrough for Level 6: The
Crusher.

Version 4.95, July 1, 2015: Replaced the Cheat Codes section with a table,
making it cleaner and easier to read.

==========
14. Links
==========

Here are links to other good Doom websites.

www.classicdoom.com - Led Meister's page for all the info you need about Doom
www.zdoom.org - ZDoom source port, an excellent port used to play Doom, with an
endless amount of features.
www.dengine.net - The Doomsday Engine, a source port that renders Doom in
OpenGL.
www.doombuilder.com - Download Doom Builder here, which allows you to create
your own levels.
www.zdaemon.org - ZDaemon is a source port that is essentially built to play
Doom online.
www.doomworld.com - Has a lot of info about Doom and is used to download plenty
of things that support Doom, such as patches. I can be found at their forums
under the name "peach freak".

============
15. Credits
============

id Software = They made this awesome game.

CJayC = The administrator of the best site in the world (GameFAQs) posted this
FAQ.

Me = I wrote the guide.

You = You read the guide, and liked it (hopefully).

Led Meister = The Doom Expert helped me out with a lot of things in Doom. This
is his username on GameFAQs. Plus, his website, www.classicdoom.com, is a godly
website about Doom. This is where I found the mouse and demo creating bug fixes
for Doom95. May Led Meister and ClassicDOOM live forever.

Pulse = Another user on GameFAQs who has helped me out with quite a few things
in Doom.

Microsoft = They created Microsoft Windows operating systems, the best out
there today.

Mike C = He provided me with another bug in the game.

AquaStreak = A cool user on GameFAQs I met a while back. He has helped find
spelling, grammar, and formatting mistakes in this guide, in addition to
providing information on the availability of this game today.

Josh Phillips = His user name is misquito_breath on GameFAQs. He pointed out a
spelling error and notified me that I had no health section in my items
section. Another thing he did was point out an error in my enemies section. I
had the first appearance for the Spectre as map 3, but it was map 2 and I
completely forgot all about this. Thanks a lot man. :)